Aspect Shrine (X)
The budding Aspect Shrines were a facet of the paths of which the
Aeldari walked, a discipline of which one dedicated themselves to - at
the exclusion of all else. Each of these cults focused upon a different
element of the Aeldari war god, honing themselves into a particular
tactical role on the battlefield. Their minds and bodies were honed with
endless practice until they became suffused with the aspect of Khaine
those Aspect Warriors were intended to honour. When the Aeldari of
the Aspect Shrines went to war, they did so as a group of specialists,
practised to perfectly compliment one another’s roles on the battlefield.
However, their numbers dwindled due to their newfound existence, and
when forced to mass in numbers against some dire threat, they were
forced to draw upon the greater Craftworld population in the hope of
assembling a force capable of combating the enemy.
The notation in brackets that is included as part of the Aspect
Shrine (X) Special Rule defines which Aspect Shrine the model
belongs to. This Aspect Shrine influences how it may be selected
when building an army that incorporates a Detachment with the
Asuryani Sub-faction.
When selecting a detachment using the Asuryani Army List, the
number of units from Aspect Shrines is limited; for each model
included in a Detachment with the Character Sub-Type (or the
Phoenix Lord Unit Type) and a given version of the Aspect Shrine
(X) Special Rule (for example, Aspect Shrine (Dire Avenger)), the
Detachment may include up to one other unit without the
Character Sub-type (or the Phoenix Lord Unit Type) with the
corresponding Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule. Units taken this way
are still limited to available Force Organisation slots. Note that
Dedicated Transports do not count towards these limits.

Battle Focus
Warriors of the Aeldari entered a semi-trance state when at war,
enabling them to enact pinpoint assaults whilst still utilising their
natural agility for rapid repositioning.
A unit composed entirely of models with this Special Rule may
choose to Run in the Controlling Player’s Movement Phase and
still shoot in the following Shooting Phase. If they choose to Run
in the Movement Phase, all shooting attacks the unit makes in the
following Shooting Phase are resolved at a Ballistic Skill
Characteristic of 2.

Bio-Explosive
Those slain by weapons which use this ammunition did not merely
perish in gore and gunsmoke - but instead came apart in an explosion
of surprisingly violent power.
If a model is slain as a result of a weapon with this Special Rule,
centre a Small Blast (3”) template over the slain model. All models
under the marker suffer an immediate automatic hit at Strength 5,
AP 4 with the Ignores Cover Special Rule. Note that models slain
in this manner do not generate additional Bio-Explosive templates.

Bonesinger Companions
The Bonesingers served as psychic engineers and craftsmen for the
Craftworlds, using the solidified essence of the warp to create and
maintain both aesthetically pleasing and incredibly capable items.
Whilst not traditionally warriors, those that were summoned to war
were a vital resource only assigned in necessity, placed amongst kin
that could best benefit from their capabilities.
A Bonesinger Conclave is selected as any other unit, using up a
single Force Organisation slot and bought in the same manner.
However, before the first turn begins and any models are deployed
to the battlefield, all models in a Bonesinger Conclave must be
assigned to another unit from the same Detachment of the army
they were selected as part of.
Bonesingers may only be assigned to units of Guardian Defenders,
Storm Guardians, or Vaul's Wrath Support Batteries. No more
than one Bonesinger may be assigned to any given unit.
Once assigned to a unit, the Bonesinger is considered part of that
unit and may not leave it under any circumstances – if the unit is
removed as a casualty, then the Bonesinger is removed as well. In
battles using Victory points, no Victory points are ever scored for
removing a Bonesinger as a casualty. When assigned to a unit, a
Bonesinger gains all of the special rules (with the exception of
those that specifically forbid it) and Unit Sub-types listed for the
unit to which it is attached, but does not gain access to any
additional Wargear options available to the unit to which it is
assigned.

Communion of Minds
Whilst individually powerful psykers in their own right, these
practitioners of the hidden arts understood that strength in numbers
was a boon they could ill afford to ignore.
Models with this Special Rule in a unit which contains multiple
models with this Special Rule may not cast Psychic Powers as
normal - instead, all applicable models must cast as a group.
Whenever the unit attempts to cast a Psychic Power, the majority
Leadership Characteristic must be used. Whenever a power is
manifested by the unit, you must pick a single model to be the
‘originating’ model – this is only to represent the lead caster, and is
for the purposes of measuring ranges and so on. In addition, the
unit’s starting size and casualties taken affecting the number of
models remaining influences Special Rules the unit has, as below;
• If a unit contains 1-3 models with this Special Rule, all models
in the unit with this Special Rule gain the Psychic Mastery (1)
Special Rule, and lose any other variant of the Psychic
Mastery (X) Special Rule they possessed.
• If a unit contains 4-6 models with this Special Rule, all
models in the unit with this Special Rule gain the Psychic
Mastery (2) Special Rule, and lose any other variant of the
Psychic Mastery (X) Special Rule they possessed.
• If a unit contains 7-10 models with this Special Rule, all
models in the unit with this Special Rule gain the Psychic
Mastery (3) Special Rule, and lose any other variant of the
Psychic Mastery (X) Special Rule they possessed.
Any models in the unit without the Communion of Minds Special
Rule are unaffected.

Breath of Khaine
The Fire Dragons burned with the Heat of Vaul’s own forge, and were
able to dispense this ardent flame against those who dared to challenge
the fury of their Aspect.
When attacking using the Wall of Death Special Rule (see the
Template rules on page 248 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness
rulebook), a Weapon with this Special Rule inflicts D6 Hits instead
of D3.

Brutal (X)
The horrendous wounds inflicted by this weapon could bring low the
greatest warriors, ending their lives in fountaining gore.
When a model is allocated a Wound inflicted by a weapon with
this Special Rule, it does not suffer only one Wound but instead
suffers a number of Wounds equal to the number in brackets
associated with the specific variant of this Special Rule, with all of
the Wounds inflicted using the same AP and special rules as that of
the initial Wound. Roll to save against each Wound inflicted
separately, but note that Wounds caused in excess of a given
model’s remaining Wounds do not spill over to other models and
are lost. This Special Rule has no effect on models that do not have
a Toughness value.

Breaching (X)
Designed to pierce armour, these weapons can be deadly when
employed with skill.
When rolling To Wound for a model that has the Breaching (X)
Special Rule, or is attacking with a weapon that has the Breaching
(X) Special Rule, for each To Wound roll equal to or higher than
the value listed in brackets, the Controlling Player must resolve
these wounds at AP 2 instead of the weapon’s normal AP value.
This rule has no effect on models that do not have Wounds, such
as models with the Vehicle Unit Type.
For example, a model with the Breaching (5+) Special Rule that rolls To
Wound and rolls a result of ‘5’ or higher, the Wound inflicted gains an
AP of ‘2’ regardless of the AP value listed on the weapon’s profile. Note
that a weapon that has both the Breaching (X) and the Gets Hot
special rules always uses the base AP of the weapon when rolls of ‘1’ To
Hit inflict Wounds on the attacking model.

Blade Spirit
These weapons were inhabited by the spirits of fallen warriors, who
could guide their strikes true.
Whenever a model makes attacks with a weapon with this Special
Rule, the Controlling Player may re-roll all failed To-Hit rolls of ‘1’
made for those attacks.

Brutal Ambush
Lurking in perfect stillness, these warriors became one with the
shadows. As their unsuspecting foe approached, they would leap into
action, destroying them in a blur of blades.
A unit with this Special Rule has the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule
until the first time the unit is locked in combat, at which point it
loses the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule and gains the Rage (2) and
Counter-Attack (1) Special Rules instead.

Crack Shot
The art of destruction sometimes boils down to knowing exactly where
to hit your target.
A model with this Special Rule may re-roll a single failed To-Hit,
To-Wound, or Armour Penetration roll per turn.

Embrace of Death (X)
Some weapons were so swift as to defy the eyes, moving before
perceptions could even register their presence.
A model making Attacks with a weapon with this Special Rule
makes a number of attacks equal to the number indicated in
brackets at Initiative step 10 with it, regardless of their Attacks
Characteristic or bonuses gained from any source (including
Charging). Note that a weapon with this Special Rule may only be
used in the first round of a combat, and may be used even if the
charge made was Disordered.

Fast Shot
With steely focus and expert handling, the warrior eliminates all other
distractions from their consciousness and unleashes extreme amounts
of fire. All that existed in that moment wass the potent tool they
wielded, and their luckless victims.
A model with this Special Rule may add one to the number of
shots fired when making a Shooting Attack with a weapon which
has the Heavy type.

Favoured of Khaine
Some warriors among the warhosts of the Craftworlds were known to
bear honourifics marking them as exalted in the eyes of the Eldar Gods.
All units composed entirely of models with the Asuryani Unit Subtype which can draw line of sight to at least one model with this
Special Rule gain +1 to their Leadership Characteristic (to a
maximum of 10).

Detonation
When used correctly, even the smallest explosives could be used to bring
low mighty foes.
A weapon with this Special Rule may only be used to attack models
of the Vehicle, Dreadnought or Automata Unit Types, any model
with a Movement Characteristic of 0 or ‘-’, or Buildings or
Fortifications. Furthermore, a model that is chosen to attack with
a weapon with this Special Rule during the Assault phase may only
make a single attack in the Fight sub-phase, regardless of its
Attacks Characteristic and any bonus attacks from Charging or
other Special Rules.

Flexible Tactics
Deepening their battle-trance, time seems to slow for these warriors,
allowing them and their allies to react and adapt to the tides of war.
Their swift and flexible stance capitalised on everything that it meant
to be Asuryani.
At the beginning of the Controlling Player’s turn, a unit containing
any models with this Special Rule must select one of the following
Tactics. Note that only models with the Flexible Tactics Special
Rule may benefit from its effects.
Defensive Posture
If a unit with this Tactic has at least half of its models within 6" of
an Objective, then all models in the unit gain the Feel No Pain (5+),
Battle-Hardened (1), and Stubborn Special Rules.
Offensive Rush
Whenever a unit with this Tactic makes a Shooting Attack, each
weapon they are equipped with makes one additional shot - a
weapon with Assault 2 becoming Assault 3, and so on.

Dimensional Edge (X)
The blade of this weapon is not truly at home in our reality - and the
exotic matter that constitutes its form will, when caught in the right
phase, pass straight through any matter it touches.
Weapons with this Special Rule can only ever cause a Wound on
the number indicated in brackets.
No Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls of any kind may be taken
against Wounds caused by this weapon.

Disruption (X)
The coruscating energies imparted by these weapons could circumvent
armour entirely.
To Hit rolls of the value X indicated made by a weapon with this
Special Rule cause an automatic Glancing Hit against models with
the Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration,
and an automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought,
Automata, or Armiger Unit Types, instead of rolling To Wound.
On weapons which do not roll to Hit, such as Template or Blast
Weapons, a D6 should be rolled for every applicable target - a roll
of X or higher causes an automatic Glancing Hit against models
with the Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour
Penetration, and an automatic Wound against models with the
Dreadnought, Automata, or Armiger Unit Types.
Only Invulnerable Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls may be taken
against Wounds or Hull Points of damage inflicted automatically
by this Special Rule.
If a model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule receives a
Ballistic Skill modifier (such as Night Fighting or being forced to
make Snap Shots, etc), then they may only gain the benefit of the
Disruption (X) Special Rule on a successful Hit (provided the Hit
Roll is equal to or better than the value X).

Distortion Impalement
Against the roiling energies unleashed by this weapon, there could be
no defence.
A weapon with this Special Rule ignores the effects of Void Shields
on a model it targets. Before firing a weapon with this Special Rule,
roll a D6. On a 6, the attack is resolved with the Vortex Special
Rule.

Gathering Storm
Unlike the lesser psykers of other races, the powers cast forth by Aeldari
could often overlap, multiplying in effectiveness.
Whenever a weapon with this Special Rule’s attack is resolved
using a Large Blast (5”) marker, after the attack is resolved, leave
the Large Blast (5”) marker in play until the end of the Controlling
Player’s next turn. If a weapon with this Special Rule places
another Large Blast (5”) marker within 3” of the original Blast
marker, the Controlling Player may instead resolve the attack with
an Apocalyptic Blast (10”) marker, instead of a Large Blast (5”)
marker. After the attack is resolved, remove any Blast markers
used in this attack.

Guardian Artillerists
Whether due to ease-of-use or practised familiarity, these Guardians
were highly capable with the employment of artillery. These trained
individuals knew best how to place each shot from their platforms to
deadly effect.
A Vaul’s Wrath Support Battery must have one Guardian Crew per
Support Weapon in order for all Support Weapons to make
Shooting Attacks in the Shooting phase. If, at the start of any of
the controlling player’s Shooting phases, the Vaul’s Wrath Support
Battery contains fewer Guardian Crew than Support Weapons,
then only a number of Support Weapons equal to the number of
Guardian Crew may make Shooting Attacks in that Shooting
phase. In addition, as long as there are at least as many Guardian
Crew in the unit as there are Support Weapons, then the unit
cannot be Pinned, automatically passing any Pinning test it is
called upon to take without any dice being rolled (this benefit is
immediately lost once the number of Guardian Crew is reduced to
less than the number of Support Weapons in the unit).

Ghostlight
The ghostly emanations of these weapons could pierce steel, stone, and
even flesh.
Whenever a unit containing more than one model armed with
weapons with this Special Rule is elected to make a shooting attack
in the Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase, the unit may declare it
is combining its fire rather than attacking normally. If you do so,
select one model in the unit. No other models in the unit may
make Shooting Attacks with a weapon with this Special Rule
during the Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase.
The selected model may then make a shooting attack with a
weapon it is equipped with which has the Ghostlight Special Rule.
If the weapon has multiple profiles with the Ghostlight Special
Rule, you must select one of them to use. If only one of multiple
profiles has the Ghostlight Special Rule, only that profile may be
used for the combined fire attack.
In addition, for each two additional models in the unit equipped
with a weapon with the Ghostlight Special Rule, you may apply
one of the below bonuses to the attack. Note that these bonuses
may only be claimed if the friendly models in the unit can see the
selected model which is making the shooting attack, and you may
select the same bonus multiple times:
• Increase the Range of the Profile by 6”
• Increase the Strength of the Profile by +1 (to a maximum of 10)
• Decrease the AP of the Profile by -1 (to a minimum of 1)
• Increase the number of shots by 1

Flickerjump
Those who thought they had these masters of misdirection cornered
would often find their quarry vanished in a flash.
A unit with this Special Rule may make a Flickerjump Advanced
Reaction:
Flickerjump - Advanced Reaction
This Advanced Reaction may be made during the Opposing
Player’s Shooting Phase when any enemy unit declares a Shooting
Attack targeting a friendly unit composed entirely of models with
the Flickerjump Special Rule.
Before resolving the Shooting Attack, the unit targeted by the
Shooting Attack may make an immediate Move 2D6'' in any
direction. This distance is not affected by any modifiers, whether
positive or negative. If the result of the 2D6” roll is a double 1, one
model from the Reaction unit is immediately removed as a
casualty.
Once the move is resolved, if the Shooting Attack is no longer valid
(due to the enemy unit no longer having line of sight to the target
or being out of range, for example) then the Active player may not
select a different target and no attacks are made or dice rolled for
that unit.

Guardian Officers
The militia of the Craftworlds require consolidation and leadership to
ensure perfect coherency with allies across the tide of battle. Those who
choose to take up the mantle of Officer assemble in cadres before
assigning themselves to those Guardian units who will stand in battle.
A Guardian Officer Cadre is selected as any other unit, using up a
single Force Organisation slot and bought in the same manner.
However, before the first turn begins and any models are deployed
to the battlefield, all models in a Guardian Officer Cadre must be
assigned to another unit from the same Detachment of the army
they were selected as part of. If a unit with this Special Rule
contains three or more models during the list creation stage, it
does not use up a Force Organisation slot.
Guardian Officers may only be assigned to units of Guardian
Defenders, Storm Guardians, or Vaul's Wrath Support Batteries.
Skyrunner Officers may only be assigned to units of Windriders or
Windrider Support Squads. No more than one Guardian Officer or
Skyrunner Officer may be assigned to any given unit.
Once assigned to a unit, the Guardian Officer or Skyrunner Officer
is considered part of that unit and may not leave it under any
circumstances – however, if they are the sole survivor of an attack
they may continue to function as normal. In battles using Victory
points, no Victory points are ever scored for removing a Guardian
Officer or Skyrunner Officer as a casualty. When assigned to a unit,
a Guardian Officer or Skyrunner Officer gains all of the special
rules (with the exception of those that specifically forbid it) and
Unit Sub-types listed for the unit to which it is attached, but does
not gain access to any additional Wargear options available to the
unit to which it is assigned.

Guardian of the Gates
Some of the ancient Aeldari sentinels patrolled the webway for time
immeasurable, venturing forth only when required to defend it.
A model with this Special Rule may only be selected in an army
that also includes a Webway Gate Fortification. In addition, it
must be assigned to Reserves, and deployed via the Webway Strike
Special Rule.

Iron Resolve
To be able to fight without fear, but to still be aware of its effects, was a
rare gift on the battlefields of the Age of Darkness.
A unit containing one or more models with the Iron Resolve
Special Rule automatically passes Pinning tests, Regroup tests, and
Morale checks. In addition, a unit containing one or more models
with the Iron Resolve Special Rule ignores the effects of the Fear
Special Rule.

Legacies of the Fall
The Asuryani simultaneously despised and feared She Who Thirsts. In
the neverborn of the warp they encounter in real-space, they saw their
doom made manifest.
A model with this Special Rule has the Hatred (Daemons) Special
Rule.
In addition, a unit with this Special Rule suffers a -1 penalty to
their Leadership whilst locked in a combat which includes at least
one model with the Daemon Unit Type. This penalty is cumulative
with other penalties applied to the unit’s Leadership
Characteristic.

Harrow-Lord
With targeted shots, these masters of death could inflict both great
suffering - and great fear - into their foes.
Any unit from which a model is removed as a casualty during the
Shooting Phase as a result of an attack from a model with this
Special Rule must take a Morale check as if they had suffered 25%
casualties.

Mark of Kurnous
To those who followed the path of the hunter, there was no greater
thrill than the pursuit of a marked target.
At the start of the controlling player’s Shooting Phase, a unit with
this Special Rule may select an enemy unit within 12” of any model
in the unit.
The unit making the Shooting Attack loses any variant of the
Firing Protocols (X) Special Rule it possesses, instead gaining the
Ignores Cover Special Rule for all Shooting Attacks made against
the selected unit, until the end of the Controlling Player’s
Shooting Phase.

Linked Fire
Pouring the energy of their weapons through a single nexus crystal, the
blasting energy of this weapon was built to a deadly crescendo.
Whenever a unit composed entirely of models armed with
weapons with this Special Rule (and that includes more than one
model) is elected to make a shooting attack in the Controlling
Player’s Shooting Phase, the unit may declare it is making a Linked
Fire attack rather than attacking normally. If you do so, select one
model in the unit. No other models in the unit may make shooting
attacks with a weapon with this Special Rule during the
Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase.
If the weapon has multiple profiles with the Linked Fire Special
Rule, you must select one of them to use. If only one of multiple
profiles has the Linked Fire Special Rule, only that profile may be
used for the Linked Fire attack.
In addition, for each additional model in the unit equipped with a
weapon with the Linked Fire Special Rule, you may apply one of
the below bonuses to the attack. Note that these bonuses may only
be claimed if the friendly models in the unit can see the selected
model which is making the Shooting Attack, and you may select
the same bonus multiple times:

Herald of Victory
To those warriors who spent much time aloft, landing with precision
was second nature.
A unit which contains at least one model with this Special Rule
counts as always rolling a hit on the scatter die when performing a
Deep Strike Assault.

Holo-Emitter
These great barricades provided their cover not with layered armour or
slabs of plascrete, but fields of shimmering power.
A model with this Special Rule is a Barricade and provides a 5+
Cover Save for models obscured by it. In addition, any Wounds
inflicted by attacks with the Blast special rule targeting a model
that claims a Cover Save due to a model with this Special Rule
must be re-rolled.

Inescapable Accuracy
Completely at one with their weapon, these warriors entered a killing
trance until the perfect shots had been placed upon the enemy.
Successful Shrouded Damage Mitigation Rolls and
Countermeasures Saves made against Shooting Attacks by a model
with this Special Rule must be re-rolled.

Heavy Beam
As opposed to the normal pulsing shots emitted by weapons, this
weapon projects a constant barraging stream of power.
When the weapon with this special rule is used to make a Shooting
Attack, draw a 1" wide line from the end of the gun barrel up to the
listed range of the weapon – this is the beam area. The initial
target for the weapon (the model in the beam area closest to the
attacking model) must be an enemy model.
• All models (friend and enemy) caught in the beam area
(excepting the firing model) suffer a Hit with the listed
profile of the weapon, except models with the Flyer Sub-type
which cannot be affected or targeted.
• Units with any models in the beam area receive a number of
Hits equal to the number of their models caught in the path
of the beam; casualties are removed from affected units
using the normal rules for removing casualties.
• If a Terrain piece, Building, model with the Vehicle Unit
Type or any model with 6 or more Wounds is in the beam
area, the attack is blocked and its line of effect will go no
further than that model. The blocking model will, however,
suffer 1+D3 separate Hits, rather than just 1.
• If a model with the Vehicle Unit Type and the Transport Subtype suffers a Penetrating Hit from a weapon with this
special rule, each unit Embarked on it suffers D6 Str 4 AP -
Hits with the Deflagrate Special Rule, in addition to any
other effects. Any Wounds caused are allocated by the
controller of the target unit.
• Increase the Strength of the Profile by +2
• Increase rolls made on the Vehicle Damage table by +1
• Increase the number of shots by +1
• Give the Shooting Attack the Brutal (2) Special Rule (or increase
an existing Brutal (X) value by +2)

Monofilament
These deadly devices launched monomolecular streams of wire. Kept in
a liquid state within the weapon’s magnetic reservoir, these wires were
released from a multitude of microscopic firing ducts and woven into a
cloud-like net of razor sharp wire through spinning gravity clamps.
Those caught in its web were quickly reduced to chunks as wire sliced
through gaps in armour, flesh, and bone.
When rolling To Wound normally with this weapon, any nonVehicle model that suffers a Hit from a weapon with this special
rule uses the target’s Initiative Characteristic instead of its
Toughness - this is rolled as per the normal to-Wound roll rules
otherwise. The target unit’s Toughness characteristic is still used
to determine whether the attack causes Instant Death.
In addition, any unit successfully hit by one or more models or
weapons with this Special Rule must take an Initiative test once
the attack is fully resolved. If failed, the unit must reduce its
Initiative and Movement Characteristics by -2 until the end of
their Controlling Player’s next turn. Note that the effects of this
Special Rule are cumulative, and a unit can be affected by multiple
sources, with the penalties to their Characteristics being applied to
any further Initiative Characteristic tests they are called to make -
though models with a starting Wounds Characteristic of 6 or more
cannot have their Characteristics reduced as a result of this Special
Rule.

Mysterious Statuary
These great arches hummed with immense power - and set the minds
of the Eldar ablaze with memories of their lost empire.
After Deployment Zones are determined but before any other
models are deployed, a Webway Gate must be set up on the
battlefield as follows:
• When this unit is set up on the battlefield, place the 2
Wraithbone Arches so that an arch is formed with the bases
5” apart.
• The Webway Gate must be deployed at least 6” away from
the Opposing Player’s Deployment Zone.
• No Webway Gate can be placed within Difficult Terrain,
Dangerous Terrain, Impassable terrain or inside a Building
or Fortification.
Units with the Asuryani Sub-type gain the Stubborn Special Rule
whilst within 3” of a Webway Gate. Any model in cover behind a
Wraithbone Arch has a 5+ Cover Save.

Open-Topped (X)
Some vehicle hulls are open to the elements, allowing for their
occupants to fire - but at the cost of protection.
Up to X number of models in a unit Embarked upon a Transport
with this Special Rule may make a Shooting Attack in the
Controlling Player's Shooting Phase (where X is the number in
brackets next to the Special Rule), measuring from the Transport’s
Hull. If a model chooses to fire in this way, they are counted as
having moved - note that this may prevent them from shooting
certain weapon types. It should be noted that any ability which
replaces a Shooting Attack (such as, but not limited to, casting a
Psychic Power or Cybertheurgic Rite) may not be used. Shooting
Attacks made in this manner may target a different unit to ones
made by the Transport, but any Reactions made to these target the
Transport as normal. Units with any Special Rule that allows them
to count as stationary for the purposes of Shooting attacks (such as
Relentless, Legiones Astartes (Death Guard), etc) may not benefit
from them whilst embarked on a Transport with this Special Rule.
In addition, any rolls on the Vehicle Damage Table that target a
model with this Special Rule add +1 to the result.

Path of the Dead
Those who followed the Path of the Dead were seen as accursed,
practitioners of the dark arts of Necromancy.
A model with this Special Rule gains the Runes of Twilight Psychic
Discipline (see page 25), as well as the Thaumaturgy Psychic
Discipline from the Core Psychic Power Disciplines list (see the
Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, page 322).
In addition, an army that includes one or more models with this
Special Rule gains the ability to select up to two units which have
the Wraith Unit Sub-type in the same Detachment per model with
this Special Rule. A model with both this Special Rule and the
Wraith Sub-type counts itself against the units it may select.
A model with both this Special Rule and the Independent
Character Special Rule may join a unit composed of models with
the Automata Unit Type and the Wraith Unit Sub-type - the unit
the Independent Character is joining must have both the Unit
Type and Unit Sub-type to be joined.

Path of the Farseer
In following the Path of the Farseer, one could learn to peer into the
future - but to do so was to risk madness and the attentions of She
Who Thirsts...
A model with this Special Rule gains the Runes of Fate Psychic
Discipline (see page 24) as well as the Divination, Telepathy, and
Thaumaturgy Psychic Disciplines from the Core Psychic Power
Disciplines list (see the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core
Rulebook, page 322).

Path of Command
To follow the Path of Command in Aeldari society was to accept
responsibility for all those souls under your command.
If your army contains any models with the Path of Command
Special Rule, and those models are in your army’s Primary
Detachment, then you must select one to be your Warlord. In
addition, any models from the same Detachment as a model with
the Path of Command Special Rule selected as your Warlord, and
with the same Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule (if your Warlord has
it), gain the Line Sub-type.

Paired Weapons
Some weapons require they are used together to achieve full effectiveness.
A model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule gains an extra
Attack.
Scorpion’s Sting (X)
The warrior was capable of employing mandiblaster weapons with
expert precision, directing deadly volleys at the foe’s most vulnerable
points in the struggle of close combat.
A model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule causes a
number of immediate Hits equal to the number indicated in
brackets at Initiative step 10 with it, but may not assign any further
attacks to the weapon with this Special Rule. Note this attack does
not grant an additional Pile In move.

Riposte (X)
Fluid in the air in a way the eye struggles to track, this weapon seems
to be in many places at once - and always right where it is needed to
block a blade...
Models making an attack against a model wielding a weapon with
this Special Rule must subtract X from their Weapon Skill.

Reaping Blow (X)
When outnumbered, this weapon could be swung to connect with
many foes at once.
If a model is in base contact with more than one enemy model in
the Initiative step in which they fight, they gain a number of
Attacks equal to the value of X as noted in the variant of the
Special Rule (if no value of X is included then count the value of X
as 1).

Runes of Warding
These potent runes could nullify the efforts of psykers whose goals did
not align with that of the caster.
Any enemy model within 18” and line of sight of a model with the
Runes of Warding Special Rule must reduce its Leadership by -3
when making Psychic Checks. This modifier is not cumulative and
no model may suffer penalties from more than one model with the
Runes of Warding Special Rule.

Runes of Witnessing
Shielding the caster, these etched runes allowed one skilled to unravel
the fates to avoid disaster.
Once per Game Turn, a model with the Runes of Witnessing
Special Rule may re-roll any number of dice when making a
Psychic Check.

Precise Throw
Designed to be thrown during a rapid, controlled descent, this
weapon’s explosions often do untold damage in the doing so.
A unit that contains at least one model equipped with a weapon
with this Special Rule may nominate a single model to make a
shooting attack with it immediately after they complete a Deep
Strike Assault. Only a single model may use a weapon with this
Special Rule per unit, and this attack is treated as a Shooting
Attack made in the Movement Phase. A unit that uses a weapon
with this Special Rule in the Movement phase can still shoot in the
subsequent Shooting phase; however, it must target the same unit,
and if no viable targets remain in that unit it cannot shoot any
other target. A weapon with this Special Rule cannot be used to
make Shooting Attacks in any other situation.

Psychic Mastery (X)
A raw bulwark of ethereal power, the psyker pushes past the limits that
would spell doom for others - despite the great risks...
A model with this Special Rule may cast an amount of Psychic
Powers per phase, up to the number indicated in brackets, in spite
of the normal limitations on doing so. Note that a Psychic Power
counted as a Shooting Attack counts as a single Psychic Power or
Weapon for the purposes of this Special Rule, and each Psychic
Power or Weapon a model or unit knows can only be cast once per
Phase.

Reach (X)
The range of this weapon allowed those armed with it to strike before
their foes.
A model making attacks as part of an Assault using a weapon with
this Special Rule, adds the value of (X) that is included as part of
this Special Rule to its Initiative Characteristic. If a model has
more than one weapon with this special rule then that model only
increases the value of its Initiative by the value of the Special Rule
on the weapon whose profile is used by that model to attack
during the Fight sub-phase. A weapon that is not used to attack
does not modify the model’s Initiative Characteristic – models
that may attack with more than one weapon, or models claiming
the bonus for having a second weapon, may only add the value of
the highest variant of this Special Rule and do not add the values
together.
For example, a model attacking as part of an Assault with a weapon
that has the Reach (1) Special Rule increases its Initiative by +1.

Path of the Shaper
The Path of the Shaper encompassed artisans, craftspeople, and the
like - but all had their part to play in war.
All models with the Infantry Unit Type in a unit that includes at
least one model with the Path of the Shaper Special Rule gain the
Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule. Units that include more than one
model with the Path of the Shaper Special Rule do not stack the
Feel No Pain (X) Special Rule and gain no additional benefit.
Models with the Grav-Platform Sub-type are not affected by this
Special Rule and do not gain the Feel No Pain (X) Special Rule.
At the start of the Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase, they may
choose to lose the ability to confer the Feel No Pain (5+) Special
Rule to the unit they are part of, and if they do so, they gain the
Battlesmith (3+) Special Rule instead. They may use the
Battlesmith (3+) Special Rule as normal - or may instead use it on a
model with the Grav-Platform Sub-type instead to restore a single
Wound lost earlier in the battle. A model with this Special Rule
may choose to use the Battlesmith (3+) Special Rule to affect any
applicable friendly model within 6”. This effect lasts until the start
of the Controlling Player’s next turn, at which point the model
with this Special Rule loses the Battlesmith (3+) Special Rule and
regains the Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule.

Ponderous Aim
Some weapons were simply too unwieldy to use without difficulty -
though their troublesome use was often offset by their decidedly
impressive effects.
A weapon with this Special Rule cannot be fired as part of a
Reaction or used to Snap Shoot.

Skilled Rider
A lifetime in the saddle allows the most skilled to fire their arsenal at
full effectiveness - even on the move.
A model with this Special Rule may opt to run in the Movement
Phase and still fire a single ranged weapon in the Shooting Phase.
These shots are made at BS2. The To-Hit rolls for these shots
cannot be improved by any source.
Note that if a unit makes use of this Special Rule, they may not
claim the benefits of the Firing Protocols (X) Special Rule in the
same Game Turn.

Seer Council Retinue
On rare occasions, the most skilled of warlocks would band together
around a Farseer, shielding them in battle to ensure the fate they
followed would come to pass.
A Seer Council may be selected as a Retinue Squad in a
Detachment that includes at least one model with the Path of the
Farseer Special Rule, instead of as an Elites choice. A Seer Council
selected as a 'Retinue Squad' must have one model with the Path of
the Farseer Special Rule from the same Detachment selected by
the Controlling Player as the Seer Council's Leader for the
purposes of this Special Rule.
A Seer Council selected as a Retinue Squad does not use up a Force
Organisation slot, is considered part of the same unit as its Leader,
and does not count towards any 0-1 restrictions on unit selections.
A Seer Council selected as a Retinue Squad must be deployed with
the model selected as its Leader deployed as part of the unit and
the Leader may not voluntarily leave the Retinue Squad during
play. All models in a Seer Council unit taken as a Retinue Squad
gain the Chosen Warriors special rule. If the Leader has a
Skyrunner Jetbike, their Retinue Squad must all have Skyrunner
Jetbikes. If the Leader does not have a Skyrunner Jetbike, their
Retinue Squad must not have Skyrunner Jetbikes.

Shadow of Death
The malign influence of these warriors hinted at the painful death to
come for those who opposed them.
An enemy unit with at least one model within 12" of a model with
this Special Rule must roll an additional D6 when making a
Leadership Characteristic Check for any reason, discarding the
lowest die. Models with the Fearless Special Rule are not affected
by this Special Rule.

Skyhunter
These craft were designed for operation as skimmers - though when
required, they could perform low-level flight.
If a model with this Special Rule chooses to move Flat Out, it
moves up to triple its Movement Characteristic instead of double.

Skyleap
With even the gentlest purposeful flicker of their iridescent wings, these
warriors took effortlessly to the sky, ready to redeploy where they were
needed most.
At the beginning of the Controlling Player’s Movement phase, if a
unit composed entirely of models with this Special Rule is not
currently locked in combat, you may place the unit back into your
ongoing reserves. If you do, it can be assigned to a Deep Strike
Assault as normal on your Next Player Turn.

Skystrike
Experts in providing supporting assaults from on high, these warriors’
weapon would blaze as they descended from the sky, heralding their
approach.
At the end of the Movement Phase, a unit with this Special Rule
can make a single Attack for each model in the unit against an
enemy unit with the Flyer Sub-type the unit moved over this turn.
This Attack hits automatically on a 4+ and is resolved at Strength 4
AP4 with the Haywire Special Rule. Vehicles are hit on their Side
Armour Value. Attacks made with this Special Rule may only ever
be made against a single target per turn.

Sonic Wave
The greatest of sonic weaponry did not merely shatter its targets, but
liquefied them utterly under their annihilating assault.
When making a Shooting Attack with this weapon, place the Large
Blast (5") marker so that its edge touches the barrel of the firing
model’s weapon. Instead of scattering this Blast marker, move the
template in a direct line away from the firing model, travelling in
any direction within the weapon’s 45° forward firing arc until its
maximum range is reached or the template leaves the battlefield.
All models the template passes over suffer a single automatic Hit.
Flyers are also Hit if the template passes over their base. Should a
model with the Knight, Titan, Super-heavy Vehicle, Building or
Fortification Unit Type be Hit by this attack, increase the Strength
of the attack to 10.

Sonic Pulse
These weapons could unleash blasts of pure sound, capable of breaking
apart a target with sonic energy.
When making a Shooting Attack with this weapon, place the Blast
(3") marker so that its edge touches the barrel of the firing model’s
weapon. Instead of scattering this Blast marker, move the marker
in a direct line away from the firing model, travelling in any
direction within the weapon’s 45° forward firing arc until its
maximum range is reached or the template leaves the battlefield.
All models the template passes over suffer a single automatic Hit.
Flyers cannot be hit by this attack. Should a model with the
Knight, Titan, Super-Heavy Vehicle, Building or Fortification Unit
Type be Hit by this attack, increase the Strength of the attack to 8.

Soul Forfeit
This warrior fought without fear; for their soul itself was lost, and so
they were already dead.
A model with this Special Rule never awards Victory Points when
slain, and if removed from play does not count toward the total
number of units slain at the end of the battle. In addition, a model
with this Special Rule does not count as a Scoring or a Denial unit.

Wraith Conclave
The immense wraithbone constructs fielded by the Aeldari would often
stride together in non-combat situations; but once the call of war took
them, they would pursue their own objectives.
When deployed onto the battlefield (either at the start of the battle
or when arriving from Reserves), all models with this Special Rule
in a unit must be placed within unit coherency, but afterwards
operate independently and are not treated as a unit. Once a unit
with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as its own
unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and
similar rules.

War Shout
The shrill screeches of these warriors would unnerve even the most
skilled combatants.
On a turn in which a unit containing a model with this Special
Rule charges or is successfully charged, any enemy models locked
in the combat suffer a Penalty of -1 to their Weapon Skill, to a
minimum of 1.

Webway Strike
Emerging without a whisper from the depths of the webway, these
combatants were masters of precision strikes.
Before the start of Game Turn 1, when placing units into Reserve, a
player whose army includes a Webway Gate may choose to assign
one or more of their units in Reserve to perform a Webway Strike.
Starting on Turn 2, the Controlling Player may choose to deploy
one unit assigned to a Webway Strike onto the battlefield per turn
(without the need to make a Reserve roll). A unit assigned to a
Webway Strike moves onto the battlefield as though the line
between each Wraithbone Arch was the Controlling Player’s
battlefield edge.
Once the unit is deployed, any enemy units that have one or more
models within 6” of any unit deployed as part of the Webway
Strike must make an immediate Pinning test. Once all Pinning
tests are resolved, any enemy units that are neither Pinned or
Falling Back and are within line of sight and range may choose to
make the Interceptor Advanced Reaction targeting any one of the
units deployed as part of the Webway Strike. Note that no
Reaction other than Interceptor may be made against the
deployment of a unit as part of a Webway Strike.
Once a unit making a Webway Strike has been deployed and any
Interceptor Reactions have been resolved, the turn proceeds as
normal. Units that have been deployed as part of a Webway Strike
may not Move or Run in the same movement phase as they are
deployed, but may Shoot and Assault as normal.
If there are any units assigned to a Webway Strike, but no
Wraithbone Arch remains in play, then those units are instead
reassigned to Reserves instead.

Vector Dancer
Some aircraft could perform hairpin turns and exert immense G-forces
upon their pilots, dodging incoming fire and wheeling to target the
weakest points of their enemy.
A flyer with this Special Rule may make an additional 90 degree
pivot at the end of its Movement in the Controlling Player’s
Movement Phase.

Transport Skiff
These transports were often used to deliver occupants to combat at
high-speed, leveraging anti-gravitic technology to do so.
A model with the Transport Skiff Special Rule gains the Infantry
Transport and Assault Vehicle Special Rules. For the purposes of
these Special Rules, as well as the Transport Sub-type, a model
with this Special Rule is counted as a Vehicle.
In addition, when a model with this Special Rule loses its last
wound, all models embarked upon it immediately suffer a S6 APhit. These are allocated by the Controlling Player. Surviving
passengers are placed where the model used to be (or as close as
possible) in unit coherency, at least 1” away from any enemy
models. Any models which cannot be placed are removed as
casualties. The unit must then take a Pinning Test.

The Runes of War
These casters have become dedicated to the art of casting the Runes of
Battle and scrying their effects.
A model with this Special Rule does not individually pick Psychic
Powers - instead, it automatically knows the Thaumaturgy
Discipline, as well as all powers from the Runes of Battle
Discipline. When a model with this Special Rule is selected as part
of any unit that is not a Seer Council, they instead must pick a
single power from the Runes of Battle Discipline.

Stalker
An apex predator upon the battlefield, this combatant lived for the fury
of the duel and revelled in their superiority.
During the first round of a Challenge, a model with this Special
Rule gains a number of bonus attacks equal to the amount its
Initiative Characteristic is higher than that of the opposing model.
If the Initiative Characteristics are equal, or the model with this
Special Rule has a lower Initiative Characteristic, this rule has no
effect.

Soul Tear
Some weapons were so potent that, at a whispered command, they
would cleave not only a foe’s physical form, but their very soul.
The Controlling Player of any unit that includes one or more
models with the Psyker Unit Sub-type and a weapon or ability with
this Special Rule may choose to activate this Special Rule before
making any attacks with that weapon or resolving the ability. To
activate this Special Rule, the Controlling Player must make a
single Psychic check using the Leadership Characteristic of any
model in the unit that has the Pskyer Unit Sub-type.
If the Check is successful, then all attacks made with weapons or
abilities with this Special Rule gain the Armourbane (Melee),
Armourbane (Ranged), and Fleshbane Special Rules. In addition,
whilst these effects are active, all attacks made with this weapon
are counted as having the Force Special Rule for the purposes of
any Unit Types, Sub-types, or Special Rules which are affected by
it. This benefit is applied only in the Phase in which these attacks
are made and ends immediately after that Phase is resolved. If the
Check is failed then no benefit is gained, but the models in that
unit may attack as normal.

Vortex
The collapsing singularities caused by these weapons tore and broke at
the fabric of reality itself.
Once an attack with this special rule has been fully resolved, any
Blast markers placed as part of that attack are not removed from
play and instead are left in place for the remainder of the battle.
Such a Blast marker is then referred to as the Vortex marker. The
area under a Vortex marker is treated as Area Terrain for the
remainder of the battle, and applies the following effects to all
models that enter its boundaries:
No line of sight may be drawn through, into, or out of the area
covered by the Vortex marker (as such, models within such an area
of terrain cannot draw line of sight to any other model, nor can
other models draw a line of sight to them).
Any models that enter the boundary of this area of terrain, or
begin the Movement phase of the model’s Controlling Player
within its boundaries, immediately suffer one Str 10, AP 1 Hit and
the Instant Death and Armourbane (Melee) special rules. If the
model has the Vehicle Unit Type and suffers a Penetrating Hit due
to this effect then it adds a modifier of +3 to that roll on the
Vehicle Damage table.
This area of terrain does not confer a Cover Save and no model
within its boundary may use a Cover Save granted by any other
rule or effect.

Wrecker
Some weapons pierce armour not with breaching power, but instead
raw blunt force.
Penetrating Hits caused by attacks made with weapons or models
with this special rule add +1 to the result of any rolls on the Vehicle
or Building Damage tables.

Wraithbone Core
Aeldari titans were constructed of sterner stuff than the smaller warengines fielded by their race; attacks of a lesser calibre simply could not
affect them.
A model with this Special Rule ignores all Psychic Powers and
Cybertheurgic Rites and Attacks made by Psychic and
Cybertheurgic Weapons. In addition, a model with this special rule
ignores the effects of Haywire and Disruption(X) special rules. In
all cases, weapons which benefit from these special rules must
attempt to damage a model with this special rule normally using
the attack’s strength value. Furthermore, when a model with this
special rule is destroyed, the damage caused by its Catastrophic
Damage is altered to resolve at AP2.
