Advanced Reaction: Scornful Fire
FAQ / Balance Change
To match the order of operations found in all other Reactions and
Advanced Reactions, any Shooting Attacks made as part of this
Advanced Reaction are resolved after all To Hit and To Wound
rolls, and Armour Saves are made, but before any Damage
Mitigation rolls are made or casualties removed by the Shooting
Attack that triggered this Advanced Reaction.

Mechanicum Acastus Knight Asterius
Balance Change
Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted.
Replace the two Arm Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Conversion
Beam Cannons with two Arm Mounted Conversion Destructors -
See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.

Ordinatus Ulator
Balance Change
Add Searchlights to this unit’s wargear.

Ordinatus Aktaeus
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 700 points.
Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile.

Archmagos Anacharis Scoria
Balance Change
Add the Stubborn Special Rule to this unit’s profile.

Forbidden Protocols
Errata
Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait:
“Note that this Warlord Trait can affect a unit which Archmagos
Anacharis Scoria has joined, even though this would normally not be
permitted as the unit would no longer be a unit containing only
Automata.”

Rites of the Beast
Errata
Replace this Special Rule to read as follows:
“Anacharis Scoria has the Artificia Machina, Artificia Cybernetica,
Ephemera Incursus, and Anima Malefica Cybertheurgic Arcana, and
has all Rites and weapons that are part of those Arcana.
In addition, Archmagos Anacharis Scoria provides all effects, benefits,
and rules (and gains any wargear, Special Rules, or other effects
applicable to himself) that an Archmagos with the Cybernetica
Arcana would to the detachment he is in.”

Karacnos Assault Tank
Balance Change
Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted.

Thanatar Siege-Automata Maniple
Balance Change
Change the value of the Hammer of Wrath Special Rule on this
unit’s profile to Hammer of Wrath (3).
Add the following to the wargear section on the unit’s profile:
One Shock Charger (Thanatar-Calix only)

Scyllax Guardian-Automata Maniple
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 100 points.
Add the Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.

Arlatax Battle-Automata Maniple
Balance Change
Replace the two Power Blade Arrays with in-built Light
Autocannons on this unit’s profile with two Arlatax Power Claws
with in-built Light Autocannons - See the Panoptica Weapons
Profiles section.
Change the upgrade cost for an Arc Scourge to +10 points.

Ursarax Cohort
Balance Change
Change the Strength Characteristic on the unit’s profile to be 5.
Change the second bullet point in the unit’s options to read as
follows:
“For every three models in the unit, one Any Ursarax may exchange
their two lightning claws for:”

Adsecularis Tech-Thrall Covenant
Balance Change
Change the value of the Armour Save on this unit’s profile to be 5+.

Myrmidon Secutor Host
Balance Change
Change the upgrade cost for Graviton Guns to +10 points.
Change the upgrade cost for Phased Plasma Fusils to +15 points.

Warlord Battle Titan
Balance Change
Change the Void Shields (6) Special Rule on this unit’s profile to
Void Shields (8).

High Techno-arcana: Stataraga
Errata
Add the following to the end of this Special Rule:
“In addition, when selected as a Troops Choice in a Questoris Knights
Detachment, Archmagos Draykavac gains the Patris Cybernetica
Special Rule.”

Questoris Knight Styrix
Balance Change
Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile.

Questoris Knight Magaera
Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile.

0-1 Questoris Knight Atrapos
Balance Change
Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile.

0-1 Questoris Acastus Knight Asterius
Balance Change
Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted.
Replace the two Arm Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Conversion
Beam Cannons with two Arm Mounted Conversion Destructors -
See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.

Armiger Unit Type
Errata
Add the following to the Armiger Unit Type:
“A unit with the Armiger Unit Type cannot be destroyed as a result of a
Sweeping Advance made by a unit with the Infantry Unit Type.
A unit with the Armiger Unit Type automatically passes any Pinning
tests they would be required to make.
Any attacks made against a unit with the Armiger Unit Type are
resolved as if the Armigers have the Dreadnought Unit Type, for the
purposes of resolving these attacks. Note that this affects any Wargear,
Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.”

Paragon Unit Sub-type
Balance Change
Add the following to the Paragon Unit Sub-type:
“In contravention to the GW FAQ, a unit with the Paragon Sub-type
may make Reactions, ignoring restrictions from any Unit Type or Subtype that would prevent it from doing so, as long as the Controlling
Player has Reaction allotment available.”

Household Ranks
Balance Change
Add the following to the Household Ranks section:
“If an Imperial Knight selects any Household Rank, Dark Blessing, or
Holy Benediction (other than Aspirant, Seneschal, Heedless Slaughter,
Conqueror of Worlds), it increases its Hull Points Characteristic by +1.
A Knight which selects the Seneschal Household Rank or Conqueror of
Worlds Dark Blessing instead increases its Hull Points Characteristic
by +2.”

Implacable
Balance Change
Change the wording of the Implacable Special Rule to read as
follows:
“An attack targeting a model with this Special Rule reduces the number
of Hull Points of damage inflicted from any attack by -1, to a minimum
of 1, and reduces all rolls on the vehicle damage table by 1.”

Acastus Knight Porphyrion
Balance Change
Replace the Two Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Magna
Lascannons on this unit’s profile with Two Hull (Front) Mounted
Magna Lascannons.

Cybernetica Exortus (Cybertheurgic Rite)
FAQ
As the ability to ignore a Wound inflicted upon the unit happens
before any allocation is done, Special Rules like Brutal (X) and so on
would not trigger on a Wound so discarded.
Balance Change
Replace the first bullet point to read as follows:
“When making a Charge roll for the unit in the same turn as this Rite is
used, as long as the unit contains at least one model with the
Automata Unit Type, roll an additional dice and discard the lowest
rolled dice before determining the results of the Charge roll.”
Replace the third bullet point to read as follows:
“The unit may add either +1 to its Ballistic Skill or Weapon Skill
Characteristics (to a maximum of 5) for the remainder of the
Shooting phase in which this power is used until the end of the
Controlling Player’s current turn.”

Ephemera Perfidiae (Cybertheurgic Rite)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of this Cybertheurgic Rite to read as follows:
“Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Cybertheurgist with this
Cybertheurgic Rite may select a single enemy unit with a model within
12" that is entirely composed of models with the Vehicle, Dreadnought,
or Automata Unit Type (but not any models with the Super-Heavy,
Lumbering, Titan, or Knight Sub-types). The Cybertheurgist’s
Controlling Player may immediately make a Shooting Attack as if they
controlled the chosen unit – this Shooting Attack may target any unit
that is considered an enemy unit by the Cybertheurgist’s Controlling
Player and is made as Snap Shots. The Cybertheurgist may choose to
make a Cybertheurgy check before making this Shooting Attack, and if
successful the Shooting Attack is made using the Cybertheurgist’s BS
and is not made as Snap Shots. If the Check is failed then the
Cybertheurgist suffers Cybertheurgic Feedback and no Shooting Attack
is made. An enemy unit used to make a Shooting Attack with this Rite
may attack normally in its Controlling Player’s turn and gains the
Hatred (Cybertheurgists) Special Rule for the rest of the battle.”

Ephemera Exocluo (Cybertheurgic Weapon)
Balance Change
Replace the Blind Special Rule on this Cybertheurgic Weapon’s
profile with the Sensor Flare Special Rule.

Armiger and Moirax Talons
FAQ
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule:
“Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as
its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and
similar rules.”
