Binaric Stratagems
Balance Change
It should be noted that if a model is not equipped with a Kyropatris
Field Generator, they may not claim the benefits of any Special Rule
or effect provided by the Binaric Stratagems Special Rule - even if
these Special Rules or effects would normally be conferred, such as
the Preferred Enemy (X) Special Rule.


Lacyraemarta
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Opus Viscera Sub-Heading:
“This ability may not be used on any unit which is locked in combat,
and may only be used on units composed entirely of models from the
Mechanicum Faction.”

Thanatar Maniple
FAQ
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule:
“Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as
its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and
similar rules.”

Void Shields (X)
FAQ
When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void
Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are
deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For
example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack
successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three
shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded.
It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special
Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the
Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation
Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X)
Special Rule.

Pride of Place
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Pride of Place Special Rule:
“A model with this Special Rule may ignore the restrictions applied by it
if the Unit with the Transport Sub-type they are attempting to Embark
onto also has the Super-Heavy Sub-type. In addition, a model with this
Special Rule gains the Bulky (X) Special Rule, where X is equal to the
model’s starting Wounds Characteristic.”

Reactor Overload
FAQ
Any Wounds or Hull Points of Damage caused by this Special Rule
are only resolved once the Shooting Attack has been fully resolved.

Paragon of Metal
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Paragon of Metal Special Rule:
“A model which has this Special Rule changes their Armour Save to 2+.”

God-Engine
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the God-Engine Special Rule:
“In addition, all units wholly within 18” of a model with this Special
Rule and which have a Kyropatris Field Generator gain the Line
Sub-type.”

Feudal Hierarchy
Errata
Change the Feudal Hierarchy Special Rule to read as follows:
“A single Detachment may not include both an Archmagos Prime and
an Archmagos Prime on Abeyant only ever include a single model with
this Special Rule.”

Disruption (X)
Balance Change
Change the Disruption (X) Special Rule to read as follows:
“To Hit rolls of the value X indicated made by a weapon with this
Special Rule cause an automatic Glancing Hit against models with the
Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration, and an
automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought, Automata, or
Armiger Unit Types, instead of rolling To Wound.
On weapons which do not roll to Hit, such as Template or Blast
Weapons, a D6 should be rolled for every applicable target - a roll of
X or higher causes an automatic Glancing Hit against models with
the Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration, and
an automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought,
Automata, or Armiger Unit Types.
Only Invulnerable Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls may be taken
against Wounds or Hull Points of damage inflicted automatically by
this Special Rule.”

Destructor
Balance Change
Change the Destructor Special Rule to read as follows:
“Any model which suffers an unsaved Wound or Hull Point loss from a
weapon with this Special Rule does not suffer only one Wound or Hull
Point of damage, but instead suffers D6 Wounds or Hull Points of
damage instead, with all of the Wounds or Hull Points inflicted using
the same AP and special rules as that of the initial Wound. Roll to
save against each Wound or Hull Point of damage inflicted
separately, but note that Wounds or Hull Points of damage caused in
excess of a given model’s remaining Wounds or Hull Points do not
spill over to other models and are lost.
In addition, if the target of this attack is a model with the Knight,
Titan, Gargantuan, Super-Heavy Vehicle, or Building or Fortification
Unit Type, or the Monstrous Unit Sub-type, increase the number of
Wounds suffered or Hull Points lost to 2D6.”

Stratos Thrusters
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“On a Game Turn in which a model armed with Stratos Thrusters
activates them, they may elect to gain the Skyfire Special Rule for all
Ranged Weapons they are armed with. In addition, a model equipped
with Stratos Thrusters also gains the Deep Strike Special Rule. A model
with an activated set of Stratos Thrusters may move over both friendly
and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its
Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and
ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain
they move over as they make their move, though they must still take
Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move
in terrain that would require them to do so.”

Utan Jump Booster
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“A model with an activated Utan Jump Booster may move over both
friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its
Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and
ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain
they move over as they make their move, though they must still take
Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move
in terrain that would require them to do so.”

Ionic Deflector
Balance Change
Change the wargear’s description to read as follows:
“A model with an Ionic Deflector gains a 5+ Invulnerable Save, and any
model with an Ionic Deflector and a Wounds Characteristic gains the
Eternal Warrior Special Rule that suffers an unsaved Wound with the
Instant Death Special Rule is not immediately removed as a casualty,
but instead loses D3 Wounds instead of one for each unsaved Wound
with the Instant Death Special Rule inflicted on it.
In addition, when a model with an Ionic Deflector loses its last Wound
or Hull Point, but before it is removed as a casualty or replaced with a
Wreck, all models both friendly and enemy within D6+3" suffer an
automatic Hit at Str 8, AP -.”

Ordinatus Dispersion Shield 
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“In subsequent Game Turns after the first, the Ordinatus Dispersion
Shield counts as a Flare Shield.”

Incunabulan Jet Pack
Balance Change
Add the following sentence to the end of the first paragraph to read
as follows:
“This extra move can only be made in the Controlling Player's own
Shooting Phase.”
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“A model with an activated Incunabulan Jet Pack may move over both
friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its
Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and
ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain
they move over as they make their move, though they must still take
Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move
in terrain that would require them to do so. It should be noted that, for
the purposes of Reactions, an Incunabulan Jet Pack is classed as having
being activated for the purposes of moving over any models or terrain.”
