Centurion World-Runes: The Decapitating Blow Effects • A single Farseer in a Detachment using this World-Rune may take an Outcast Cloak for +10 points. If selected, the Farseer also gains the Skirmish Sub-type and Scout Special Rule for no additional cost. • All models with the Infantry type in a Detachment using this World-Rune gain the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule for the first game turn, and ignore all effects and Limitations of Night Fighting for as long as it is in effect. Limitations • All Compulsory Troops choices in a Detachment using this World-Rune must be Rangers. • A Detachment using this World-Rune must include a Farseer as an HQ choice, and this model must be the army’s Warlord. Centurion World-Runes: The Speartip Effects • A single Aspect Exarch in the detachment may be given the Exemplar of the Path Special Rule for no additional points cost. Limitations • A Detachment using this World-Rune may not include more units without the Infantry Unit Type than it does units with the Infantry Unit Type. A unit which can be composed of models of both the Infantry and Cavalry Unit Type at the list building stage (such as Aspect Exarchs or Guardian Officers) counts as whichever type is in the majority for the purposes of this restriction; for example, a unit with three models of Cavalry and two Infantry would count as Cavalry. • Whenever a unit with the Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule is destroyed, roll a D6. On a roll of a 6, the Opposing Player gains +1 Victory Point. CENTURIONWORLD-RUNES Exemplar of the Path Units composed entirely of models with the same Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule as a model with this Special Rule may be taken as Compulsory Troops choices, and gain the Line Sub-type. In addition, a model with this Special Rule must be the army’s Warlord, and does not count against the normal limit of how many Aspect Exarchs may select a given Aspect Shrine. 61 Centurion World-Runes: The Awakened Anger Effects • Units of Guardian Defenders selected in a Detachment using this World-Rune may be upgraded to have a Ballistic Skill Characteristic of 5 for a cost of +2 points per model. • Units of Storm Guardians selected in a Detachment using this World-Rune may be upgraded to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic of 5 for a cost of +2 points per model. Limitations • A Detachment using this World-Rune may not include any Aspect Exarchs, nor any units with the Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule. • A Detachment using this World-Rune must include at least one Guardian Officer Cadre. ADDITIONAL GAME MODES FOR THE AGE OF DARKNESS: Game Mode: Praetorian 64 The Praetorian Game Mode is an alternative game mode to the existing Game Modes presented in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook and other publications, and is designed to allow players to fight battles between primarily infantry-based forces. We recommend games using the Praetorian Game Mode are played with between 1500 and 2000 points. Other than the stipulations listed below, a game using the Praetorian Game Mode should be played with all rules and effects as though it were a game using the Narrative Play Game Mode. The following effects must be adhered to whilst constructing a force to use with the Praetorian Game Mode: • No models with the Vehicle Unit Type may be selected. • You may select a Rite of War, but must fulfil the requirements for doing so as normal. • You may only select a maximum of 1 Wound’s worth of models with a Toughness Characteristic of 6+ for each full 125 points in your army – the points cost of models selected in this way is counted toward your army total. In this way, in an army of 1750 points, you could select a total of 14 Wounds worth of Toughness 6+ models – thus, up to two Legion Contemptor Dreadnoughts could be selected, with 2 Wounds remaining. • Models with T8 or higher count as having double their number of wounds for the purposes of these limitations - meaning a Legion Leviathan Dreadnought, which has 7W, counts as 14W for the purposes of points limitations. GAMEMODE:PRAETORIAN 65 AGE OF DARKNESS: Panoptica FAQs, Errata, and Balance Changes 68 Introduction Within this section, you’ll find a mixture of FAQs, Erratas, and Balance Changes for the Core Rules for the Horus Heresy, as well as all the Libers, PDFs, and more. We understand that it can be intimidating to approach such a far-reaching piece of work and understand why we have opted to change things in the ways we have - so, we have included below a brief explanation on what constitutes each of our three categories of change, and why we might assign something to any of them. FAQ Any changes designated as “FAQ” are, in our opinion, clarifications of existing functionality to make the intentions clearer and the effects simpler to understand. These are indicated with a Pink Gem. Errata Any changes designated as “Errata” are clearly broken or otherwise overlooked rules which needed a refactoring in a simple and approachable manner. These changes will not change the overall function of rules or units, but will ensure no ambiguity or confusion can occur during game play. These are indicated with a Yellow Gem. Balance Change Any changes designated as “Balance Changes” are our efforts to make the game more balanced, and ensure fair and fun game play for all. These are indicated with a Blue Gem. Edited Entries Wherever any text in a Special Rule or similar entry has had any text removed, this will be red and struck through, as so: For example. Any text like this should be ignored. Wherever any text in a Special Rule or similar entry has had any text added, this will be green and bolded, as so: For example. Any text like this is intended to change how the item in question works. 69 70 Sworn Brothers Fellow Warriors Distrusted Allies By the Emperor’s (or the Warmaster’s) Command AGE OF DARKNESS LEVELS OF ALLIANCE THEHORUSHERESY:AGE OFDARKNESSALLIESMATRIX In the Age of Darkness, fraught alliances can be made and broken in the heat of battle. These alliances may, on occasion, involve factions that were not truly partisan in the wider Horus Heresy conflict. The chart below is intended to replace the ones found in all current publications by Games Workshop, adding new factions and modifying a handful of factions in terms of their relationships with each other. Despite these minor modifications, the chart below still functions as per the rules and allegiance levels found on pages 10, 12, and 13 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, and this should be consulted to see the benefits and drawbacks applied by any given factions when they are allied together. It is also important to note that some sources, such as Special Rules, Rites of War, and so on, may modify the relationships between any given Factions or Sub-Factions - if this is the case, it will be clearly specified, and the allegiance rulings presented in those locations takes precedence over the chart presented below. Note that even though there are numerous Sub-Factions in the Age of Darkness which share the same Faction (such as Legio Custodes and Sisters of Silence, or Solar Auxilia and Imperialis Militia), which normally would prevent you from taking them as allies as you cannot select the same faction as your Primary and Optional Detachments, you may still select forces which have different Sub-Factions as allies. The icons in the chart correspond to the Levels of Allegiance shown in the boxout below: 71 Dark Angels Emperor’s Children Iron Warriors White Scars Space Wolves Imperial Fists Night Lords Blood Angels Iron Hands World Eaters Ultramarines Death Guard Thousand Sons Sons of Horus Word Bearers Salamanders Raven Guard Alpha Legion Mechanicum Imperial Army Aeldari Dark Angels Emperor’s Children Iron Warriors White Scars Space Wolves Imperial Fists Night Lords Blood Angels Iron Hands World Eaters Ultramarines Death Guard Thousand Sons Sons of Horus Word Bearers Salamanders Raven Guard Alpha Legion Mechanicum Imperial Army Aeldari PRIMARYDETACHMENT OPTIONAL DETACHMENT 72 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR THEHORUSHERESY:AGE OFDARKNESSCORERULEBOOK With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Reactions (Pages 158 - 160 & Page 330) FAQ Whenever a model commits an action that could trigger a Reaction (such as making a Shooting Attack at an enemy unit, moving within reaction distance, or so on), if such an action would allow multiple enemy units to React, then all may do so, providing they have not already Reacted this Phase, and the Reacting Player has sufficient Reaction Allotment to do so. It should be noted that Shooting Attacks or Charges made as part of a Reaction must, as per the GW FAQ, target the unit that triggered the Reaction. CCWs and Bonus Attacks (Page 176) FAQ As per the boxout labelled “Close Combat Weapons” on P176, if a model is armed with a pistol but no close combat weapon, then they can use their pistol as a Close Combat Weapon with the profile given. This means they are armed with a Close Combat Weapon, and so cannot claim a second one. Because a pistol counts as a Close Combat Weapon, a model armed with two pistols may claim +1A for being armed with two Close Combat Weapons. Special Rules Overlap (Various Pages) FAQ If a weapon has multiple Special Rules which overlap with each other, such as the the Graviton Gun, which has both the Haywire and Graviton Pulse Special Rules, which can overlap in the case of wounding certain target units. The Controlling Player should choose a single such Special Rule to apply the effects of, and then apply the effects of the chosen rule. In the case of multiple models with “Must do X” stipulations (such as having multiple Legion Champion Consuls with the Never Back down Special Rule requiring them to issue or accept challenges), it is assumed that the Controlling Player must pick one such trigger to activate, and having multiple does not allow you to break the core rules. Snap Shots (Page 169) FAQ A model may never voluntarily choose to fire Snap Shots. Declare Charges (Page 180) FAQ If a Unit Type declares that a unit may “Charges as normal regardless of any Shooting Attacks made in the same turn”, it should be noted that any charges must otherwise follow the normal rules on valid Charge targets - unless the model also has a Special Rule that states otherwise. To-Wound Rolls and Special Rules (Various Pages) FAQ If an unit has a Special Rule, Wargear Item, or other ability that affects the to-Hit or to-Wound roll (such as the Poisoned or Fleshbane Special Rules, or is in a mixed unit of Automata and non-Automata when hit by the Disruption Special Rule, or so on), then you must resolve those hits as though the entire unit would otherwise be able to be affected as per the Haywire FAQ (Warhammer: The Horus Heresy Age of Darkness Rulebook FAQ, Page 3). Any Special Rules, Wargear Items, or other abilities that specify they cannot be used in certain circumstances may not be benefit from this ruling. Start of Initiative Step Pile-in (Page 184) Errata Replace the first sentence to read as follows: “At the start of each Initiative step, any model whose Initiative is equal to the value of the current Initiative step that is not in base contact with an enemy model may must make a Pile-in Move if it is able to do so.” Sweeping Advances (Page 188) Errata Replace the first sentence of the third paragraph to read as follows: “If the winner’s total (Initiative + dice roll) is equal to or greater than their opponents’, the Falling Back unit is caught by the Sweeping Advance and destroyed.” The reasoning for this is because it is specified on page 190 that the roll should be equal to or greater. +1 Two Weapons: (Page 184) Errata Add the following to the section to read as follows: “A weapon with the Detonation Special Rule is never counted when determining if a model has two melee Weapons.” Cavalry (Page 195) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the list of rules included in the Cavalry Unit Type: “- For the purposes of any rules that consider number of models in a unit (such as Rampage), a Cavalry model counts as a number of models equal to its starting Wounds Characteristic.” Dreadnought (Page 195) Balance Change Add the following bullet points to the end of the Dreadnought section: “- For the purposes of any rules that consider number of models in a unit (such as Rampage), a Dreadnought model counts as a number of models equal to its starting Wounds Characteristic. Failed To Wound rolls made against a unit with the Dreadnought Unit Type by a weapon with the Ordnance type or the Sunder Special Rule may be re-rolled.” Explosions (Various Pages) FAQ Explosions from Vehicles, Atomantic Deflectors, Ferromantic Deflectors, or any similar wargear item are not counted as Blasts or Templates for the purposes of the Sub-types, Special Rules, or Wargear. 73 Automata (Page 195) Balance Change Add the following bullet points to the end of the Automata section: “- For the purposes of any rules that consider number of models in a unit (such as Rampage), an Automata model counts as a number of models equal to its starting Wounds Characteristic. Failed To Wound rolls made against a unit with the Automata Unit Type by a weapon with the Ordnance type or the Sunder Special Rule may be re-rolled.” Primarch (Page 196) Balance Change Replace the 3rd bullet point to read as follows: “Any Hits inflicted by a Primarch, as part of either Shooting Attacks or in close combat, are allocated by the Primarch’s controlling player and not the Controlling Player of the target unit. These Hits should form a separate Wound Pool. Primarchs have the Precision Strikes (2+) and Precision Shots (2+) Special Rules, and may choose to use these rules when attacking even when ordinarily they would be prevented from doing so, including when making Snap Shots.” Add the following bullet point to the Unit Type: “Any unit entirely composed of models with the Primarch Unit Type may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan, Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.” Daemon (Page 196) Errata Replace the 5th bullet point to read as follows: “No unit that does not also have the Daemon Unit Type or the Corrupted Unit Sub-type may join a unit that includes one or more models with the Daemon Unit Type.” Characters and Wound Allocation (Page 198) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the paragraph: “When the Controlling Player is assigning Wounds caused by Shooting Attacks, models with the Character Unit Sub-type may only have a number of Wounds allocated to them from each Shooting Attack equal to that model's unmodified Initiative Characteristic. When the Controlling Player is assigning Wounds in the Fight Sub-phase, models with the Character Unit Sub-type may only have a number of Wounds allocated to them by their Controlling Player equal to that model's unmodified Initiative Characteristic. If a Wound would be assigned to the Controlling Player's model by the Opposing Player, then the Opposing Player may assign Wounds as they wish. If the model is removed as a casualty before all allocated Wounds have been Saved, then the Controlling Player must re-allocate these as normal. For example, if a Legion Tactical Squad suffered ten Wounds from a Shooting Attack before Saving Throws were made, the Tactical Squad Sergeant could only have a maximum of four Wounds allocated to them by the Controlling Player to make Saving Throws against.” Antigrav (Page 196) Balance Change Replace the 1st bullet point to read as follows: “Models with the Antigrav Sub-type may move over friendly and enemy models, but cannot end their move on top of either. They may also move over all terrain, ignoring all penalties for Difficult Terrain and Dangerous Terrain. However, if a moving model with the Antigrav Sub-type starts or ends its move in Difficult Terrain or Dangerous Terrain, it must take a Dangerous Terrain test. An Antigrav model can even end its move over Impassable Terrain if it is possible to actually place the model on top of it, but if it does so it must take a Dangerous Terrain test. If an Antigrav model is forced to end its move over friendly or enemy models, move the model the minimum distance so that no models are left underneath it.” Ramming (Page 204) FAQ If a Vehicle which is part of a Squadron attempts to make a Ram attack, any models in the Squadron which do not or cannot successfully Ram must still move their maximum Movement speed to maintain coherency, and suffer the same restrictions that a Ramming Vehicle suffers. Crew Stunned (Page 208, 329) FAQ Add the following to the end of the GW FAQ line: “If this would result in the Flyer ending its move in a position where it is not permissible for it to end its move, reposition it the shortest distance in any direction from its final movement position to avoid this.” Slow Vehicles (Page 214) Balance Change Replace the last sentence to read as follows: “In addition, when a Slow Vehicle moves at Cruising Speed, other than to pivot in place, it is always considered to have moved at Cruising Speed regardless of how many inches it moves. it may only fire Snap Shots, regardless of the normal rules for Vehicles and Shooting.” Super-Heavy Vehicle Shooting (Page 215) FAQ All targets must be declared before any To Hit rolls are made. Knights and Titans (Page 216) Balance Change Any model with either the Knight or Titan Unit Type gain the Hammer of Wrath (3) Special Rule. Add the following to the end of the Knights and Titans and Assaults section: “A Knight or Titan may make a Charge move against a model in area terrain, ignoring vertical distances - treat the model being charged as though it is on the ground floor for the purposes of distances. A Knight or Titan may make a melee attack against a model whose base is within 1” horizontally of their own, regardless of vertical distance.” Add the following to the end of the third paragraph of the Knights and Titans and Assaults section: “In addition, a Knight or Titan gains +2 Attacks for being equipped with two Melee weapons, instead of the normal +1 it would gain for having Two Weapons (page 184).” Flyers and Other Models (Page 218) Errata Add the following to the end of the paragraph: "If a flyer is forced to end its move with its base within 1" of an enemy model and is unable to be placed anywhere else (such as if has suffered a Crew Stunned result) then the flyer must move the shortest possible distance to avoid the enemy model and be placed over 1" away from it." Balance Change All models with this Unit Type gain the Countermeasures Special Rule. The Lumbering Sub-Type (Page 219) Balance Change Add the following sentence to the end of the section: “Finally, due to the immense size of these airborne behemoths, they are able to fire all weapons they are equipped with, suffering no penalties, as part of any Shooting Attack they make, though they follow the normal rules and restrictions on Reactions applied to the Lumbering Sub-type.” 74 Order of Operations for Force Weapons (Pages 238 & 322) FAQ If multiple modifiers would affect the Strength of a model using a Force Weapon, these should be resolved as follows: - If a model has a weapon which would increase its S via a flat +X bonus (such as a force maul), this occurs first. - If a model uses the Force Psychic Power, the S multiplication from this is resolved next. - This means, assuming a base Strength of 4, a weapon strength of 6, and a successful cast of the Force Power for x2 strength on the attack, the model would resolve its attacks at Strength 12. The reasoning for this is that Force specifically applies its Strength multiplication bonus to the attack itself, not to the weapon or bearer’s Strength. Guided Fire (Page 239) Balance Change Add the following sentence: “Models wounded by a weapon with this Special Rule may never benefit from a Cover Save due to intervening terrain and models.” Battlefield Terrain (Page 220) FAQ During Terrain set-up and Deployment, ensure that Ruins and other terrain sections are defined as to the Cover Saves they provide, as well as which sections can and cannot have Line of Sight drawn through them, and which sections are classed as Impassible or not. It should also be discussed which pieces of terrain can or cannot have vehicles ascend or descend them. In order to be considered as "placed" in a piece of terrain, a model's base or hull must be wholly within the terrain. If the model overhangs by a meaningful degree, it cannot be placed there! In cases where this is not clear or not possible due to limitations of the terrain itself, the "Wobbly Model Syndrome" rules from page 165 should be applied. When players are making assault moves across terrain where it may not be possible to place models cleanly due to terrain limitations, ensure the "Wobbly Model Syndrome" rules are kept in mind whilst agreeing with your opponent where models should be counted as being before resolving Charges and combats. Precision Shots / Strikes (X) (Page 245) FAQ The Precision Strikes (X) Special Rule does not allow models to strike into - or out of - a Challenge. Outside forces must attack other Outside forces, and Challengers must strike each other, in line with the Challenge section on pages 198 and 199. If a model makes any attack, then they may only gain the benefit of the Precision Shots / Strikes (X) Special Rules on a successful Hit (provided the Hit Roll is equal to or better than the value X). Master-Crafted Blast and Template Weapons (Page 243) Balance Change Add the following to the rule: “Master-Crafted Blast or Template Weapons are treated as though they have the Twin-Linked Special Rule.” Night Vision (Page 243) Errata Replace the entire Rule text with the following: “A unit that contains at least one model with this Special Rule ignores the effects of Night Fighting (see page 308) and no model may make Shrouded rolls to negate Wounds or Hull Points inflicted by their attacks.” Monster Hunter (Page 243) Errata Replace the entire Rule text with the following: “A unit that contains at least one model with this Special Rule re-rolls all failed To-Wound rolls against Dreadnoughts, Automata and Primarch models as well as any unit with the Monstrous Sub-type or Gargantuan Sub-type.” Concussive (X) (Page 236) Balance Change Replace the entire Rule text with the following: “Any unit hit by one or more models or weapons with this Special Rule must take a Leadership test once the attack is fully resolved. If the test is passed, there is no further effect. If the Leadership test is failed, all models in the unit suffer a penalty to their Weapon Skill equal to the value in brackets until the end of their Controlling Player’s next turn. Should the attacking unit hit themselves, they automatically pass the Leadership test. Any model that does not have a Leadership Characteristic (for example, Vehicles, Buildings, etc) are unaffected by this Special Rule. If a single unit has been the target of several Concussive attacks with different values and fails the Leadership test, then it suffers the effects of the highest single modifier among those attacks – the effects do not stack or otherwise become cumulative.” Blind (Page 236) Balance Change Replace the entire Rule text with the following: “If a non-Vehicle unit suffers one or more unsaved Wounds from a weapon with the Blind Special Rule, it must take a Initiative test once the firing unit has finished its Shooting Attacks for that Phase. This is called a Blind test. If the unit fails the Test, it is Blinded. If the test is passed, there is no further effect. If the Initiative test is failed, all models in the unit are reduced to Weapon Skill 1 and Ballistic Skill 1 until the end of their Controlling Player’s next turn. Should the attacking unit hit themselves, they automatically pass the Initiative test. Any model that does not have an Initiative Characteristic (for example, Vehicles, Buildings, etc) are unaffected by this Special Rule.” Hit & Run (Page 240) Balance Change Replace the third paragraph with the following: “If the Test is passed, choose a direction – then roll 2D6 and add the unit’s Movement Initiative Characteristic to the result. As long as the distance rolled, in inches, is sufficient to allow the entire unit to move over 1" away from all of the enemy units they are locked in combat with, the unit breaks away from combat and must immediately move a number of inches in the chosen direction equal to the 2D6 + Movement Initiative Characteristic result, ignoring the models they were locked in combat with. No Sweeping Advance rolls are made. Enemy units that are no longer locked in combat immediately Consolidate a number of inches equal to their Initiative.” Lumbering Flyers and the Transport Sub-Type (Page 219) Errata Add the following sentence after the first paragraph: “When a Lumbering Flyer suffers Catastrophic Damage, any unit Embarked upon it each suffers a number of Strength 10 AP 2 Hits equal to the number of models Embarked. These Wounds are allocated by the Embarked unit’s Controlling Player. Surviving passengers are placed where the Lumbering Flyer used to be and in unit coherency. Any models that cannot be placed are removed as casualties. The unit then takes a Pinning test. If a Transport is destroyed by a Shooting Attack, any unit which made a Shooting Attack targeting that Transport can, if allowed, Charge the now Disembarked passengers.” 75 Shock Pulse (Page 246) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the first paragraph: “Models with the Super-Heavy, Lumbering, Knight, or Titan Sub-types are not forced to make Snap Shots as part of their next Shooting Attack, instead suffering a -2 penalty to their Ballistic Skill Characteristic when they make their next Shooting Attack, and in addition, any weapons they are equipped with use a Scatter dice to roll to hit and which roll a result of ‘Hit’ on the Scatter die must re-roll it . This penalty can only be applied to a model once per turn.” Blast Markers, Templates, and Multi-Level Terrain (Page 234, 248) FAQ When a shooting attack which uses a template or blast marker of any kind hits a unit spread across multiple levels of terrain, all models which are under the template’s final resting position are hit - regardless of height on the terrain. Performing a Flanking Assault (Page 311) Errata Replace the wording of the 2nd Paragraph to read as follows: “Once all Flanking Assault units have moved onto the battlefield, any enemy units that have one or more models within 6" of any unit deployed as part of the Flanking Assault must make an immediate Pinning test. Once all Pinning tests are resolved, any enemy units that are neither Pinned nor Falling Back and are within line of sight may choose to make the Interceptor Reaction targeting any one of the units deployed as part of the Flanking Assault. Units that were unable to deploy in the initial Flanking deployment and were forced to remain in Reserve do not generate Pinning tests when they move onto the battlefield, but may be targeted by Interceptor Reactions (see page 309) after they arrive on the battlefield.” Change the final paragraph of the GW FAQ on Flanking Assaults to read as follows: “Units that have Disembarked from a model with the Assault Vehicle Special Rule in Step 5 of the Flanking Assault process may not Charge in the following Assault phase, as an exception to the Assault Vehicle Special Rule.” Crusade Force Organisation Chart (Page 281) FAQ When constructing an army using the Crusade Force Organisation Chart, irregardless of the number of Optional Detachments you are able to select, you may still only select a single Allied Detachment and a single Lord of War Detachment. Alternative Force Organisation Charts provided in other publications will specify how many of each kind of Detachment is permitted by them. Developer Note: This choice has been made as the wording on the same page calls out “an Allied Detachment” - not multiple - and the Chart on the same page also shows only a single such Allied Detachment. This is further reinforced by the implication of the “The Ragged and Forgotten” Campaign Stratagem in Campaigns of the Age of Darkness: The Battle for Beta-Garmon, which states that a player that selects it “…may choose to include an additional Allied Detachment in their army (allowing a total of two different Allied Detachments to be selected…” Performing a Deep Strike Assault (Page 311) FAQ Any model which scatters off a board edge as part of a Deep Strike Assault is instead considered to be within 1” of a board edge, and is so replaced within the distance specified as per the normal rules. Balance Change Replace the second paragraph with the following: “Once this first unit has been deployed, roll a D6. On the roll of a ‘1’, the Deep Strike Assault is Disordered, and the opposing player may deploy each other unit in the Deep Strike Assault anywhere wholly within 24” of the first unit without scattering, though no model may be within 1" of an enemy model or within Impassable Terrain. If the roll is a ‘2’ or higher, then the Controlling Player deploys each other unit anywhere wholly within 12” of the first, though no model may be within 1" of an enemy model or within Impassable Terrain.” Blood Feud (Page 312) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the list of Blood Feud Targets: “- Armiger: +2 Victory Points - Knights & Titans: +3 Victory Points* - Super-Heavy & Lumbering Vehicles: +4 Victory Points* *Note that The Price Of Failure Secondary Objective is scored in addition to these Blood Feud Target Victory Points.” Telekine Dome (Psychic Power) (Page 324) Balance Change Replace the entire Psychic Power ability description to read as follows: “Instead of moving during the Movement phase, a Psyker with this Psychic Power may instead activate this Psychic Power. All models, friendly and enemy, that are wholly within 8” of the Psyker gain a 6+ Invulnerable Save when targeted by any model that is not also wholly within 8” of the Psyker. If the Psyker moves, makes a Shooting Attack, Charges or is successfully Charged by an enemy unit, then the Psychic Power ends, otherwise it remains in effect indefinitely. When initially using the Psychic Power, or at the start of any of the controlling player’s subsequent Movement phase while it is in effect, the controlling player may choose to have the Psyker take a Psychic check. If the Check is passed then models affected by this Psychic Power gain a 4+ Invulnerable Save instead of a 6+ Invulnerable Save. If the Check is failed then the Psyker suffers Perils of the Warp and the Psychic Power immediately ends.” Telepathic Hallucinations (Psychic Weapon) (Page 325) Balance Change Replace the Hallucinations Rule description to read as follows: “A unit that suffers one or more Hits from a Weapon with this Special Rule must make an immediate Pinning test, adding one to the result of the roll suffering a -1 modifier to their Leadership Characteristic for each successful Hit scored by this attack before the result is decided. For example, if a Psyker attacks an enemy unit that has a Leadership of 8, scoring 3 Hits with Telepathic Hallucinations, then that unit must make an immediate Pinning test and add 3 to the result rolled before determining the result with a -3 modifier to their Leadership Characteristic. Note that models with Special Rules that ignore Leadership modifiers, such as Stubborn, do not suffer this negative modifier.” Thaumaturgic Succour (Psychic Power) (Page 325) Balance Change Replace the Hallucinations Rule description to read as follows: “Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Psyker with this Psychic Power may select a single friendly unit with at least one model within 12” and make a Psychic check. If the Psychic check is passed then all non-Vehicle models in the target unit may roll a D6. On a roll of a 5+, that model regains a single lost Wound. in the target unit regain a single lost Wound. This ability cannot be used to increase a model’s Wounds beyond its starting Wounds Characteristic.” Night Fighting (Page 308) Balance Change Replace the first paragraph to read as follows: “If a mission has the Night Fighting Special Rule, either player can declare that they wish to fight the battle at night. If either player does so, roll a D6 before deployment: on a 2+ 4+, the Night Fighting Special Rule is in effect during Game Turn 1. At the beginning of Game Turn 2, roll a D6, on the score of a 4+ the Night Fighting Special Rule is in effect during Game Turn 2 as well. At the end of Game Turn 2, all effects of the Night Fighting Special Rule cease, and the Special Rule no longer has any effect, unless another Special Rule states otherwise.” 76 Imperial Army Factions in Zone Mortalis (Page 170) Balance Change Units with either the Tercio or Strength in Numbers Special Rules do not pay the Reinforcement Points cost per unit as normal, instead paying only once per Force Organisation Slot option for all units taken as a single Force Organisation Slot selection. Imperialis Militia Infantry Squads and Imperialis Militia Levy Squads gain the Close-Quarters Boarding Protocol Special Rule when selected as part of a Detachment using the Zone Mortalis Engagement Force Organisation Chart. In addition, Imperialis Militia Heavy Ordnance Batteries may not be selected as part of a Detachment using the Zone Mortalis Engagement Force Organisation Chart. Bound Daemons in Zone Mortalis (Page 170) Balance Change Any model which normally must be deployed onto the battlefield by way of the Breach the Veil Psychic Power may, in games using the Zone Mortalis Ruleset, be placed into Reinforcements, paying the appropriate Reinforcement Points cost to enter play as per the normal rules for Zone Mortalis. It should be noted that the usual method of summoning Daemon units into play (via Anathemata Psychic Powers) cannot be used in Zone Mortalis as this game mode does not use Reserves. Warlord: Butcher of Larissan (Page 208) Balance Change Replace the wording of the Warlord Trait to read as follows: “If, at the start of any player turn, the Opposing Player has scored more Victory Points than Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius’ Controlling Player, then Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius and all models in a unit he has joined with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) Special Rule gain the Rage (2) Special Rule. Furthermore, whenever an Opposing Player scores Victory Points by causing a unit from the same Detachment as Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius to be entirely removed as casualties, Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius’ Controlling Player may choose to roll a D6. If the final result of that roll is a ‘6’ then the number of Victory points scored is reduced by 1 (to a minimum of 0 1), the result of the D6 roll is increased by +1 if the opposing player currently has more Victory Points than Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius’ Controlling Player. Note that this ability cannot be used for any Victory Points scored ‘at the end of the game’, such as those awarded by the Blood Feud mission. In addition, an army that has Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius as its Warlord may make an additional Reaction during the Opponent’s Assault phase, as long as Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius has not been removed as a casualty.” The Tyrant’s Regalia (Page 209) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the wargear’s effects: “In addition, a unit that includes Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius may not make Sweeping Advances.” Vheren Ashurhaddon (Page 212) Balance Change Add the Outflank Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Dark Angels Legion Inductii Template (Page 226) Balance Change Change the wargear section to read as follows: “All models in a unit modified by the Dark Angels Legion Inductii template must exchange their bolter for a volkite charger at no additional cost at a cost of +25 points for the unit.” FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR CAMPAIGNS OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:THE SIEGE OFCTHONIA With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Selecting Armies for Core Missions (Page 149) Errata Replace the second paragraph to read as follows: “All armies for use in a Core Mission must use a points limit of 3,000 points, or as dictated by the campaign rules or the choice of all players involved in the battles, selected using the Crusade Force Organisation chart, or any Force Organisation Chart which explicitly replaces it. Furthermore, all armies for use in a Core Mission must be selected before the mission is selected or any other stage of battle preparation is taken – this includes selecting any Warlord Traits, Rites of War, Psychic Disciplines or other such options, which must all be noted on the Controlling Player’s Army Roster.” Core Missions & Night Fighting (Various Pages) Balance Change Add the following to this section: “If the Player with Strategic Advantage elects to not activate Night Fighting, the Opposing Player may still have the Night Fighting Rules in effect on a roll of a 4+.” Legiones Decurion Defensor (Page 216) FAQ The Advanced Reactions provided by the Legiones Decurion Defensor allows all models in a unit to participate in the Advanced Reaction, so long as at least one model in the unit has the Legiones Decurion Defensor Upgrade. Difficult and Dangerous Terrain in Zone Mortalis (Page 172) FAQ Abilities, Weapons, Special Rules, and so on that generate areas of Difficult or Dangerous Terrain (such as Graviton Guns) still do so in games using the Zone Mortalis Ruleset. 77 Souls of Iron (Page 227) Balance Change Change the wording of the Special Rule to read as follows: “During the Controlling Player’s Shooting phase, a unit with this Special Rule must attempt a Shooting Attack if there is an enemy unit within range that they are able to inflict Wounds or Hull Points of Damage upon with weapons the unit is equipped with, and must target the closest enemy unit possible that is within its line of sight and is a valid target for a Shooting Attack. If two or more targets are equally close then the Controlling Player chooses which will be the target of a Shooting Attack. In addition, this unit automatically passes any Pinning tests it is required to take, and gains the Stubborn Special Rule.” Blood Angels Legion Inductii Template (Page 229) Balance Change Change the Special Rules section to read as follows: “All models in a unit modified by the Blood Angels Legion Inductii template replace the Spite of the Legion Special Rule with The Revenant Legion and Rage (2) Special Rules.” Barbaran Resilience (Page 231) Balance Change Change the second paragraph to read as follows: “Roll a D6 each time an unsaved Wound is suffered. If a unit with this Special Rule includes ten or more models at the start of a given Phase resolving the Wound Pool, then this rule has no effect. If a unit with this Special Rule includes less than ten models at the start of a given Phase resolving the Wound Pool, then on a roll of 6+ the unsaved Wound is discounted. If a unit with this special rule includes less than five models at the start of a given Phase resolving the Wound Pool then on a roll of 5+, the unsaved Wound is discounted. Treat discounted Wounds as having been saved. On any other result the Wound is taken as normal.” 78 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR CAMPAIGNS OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:THEBATTLE FOR BETA-GARMON Oath: The Spoils of Victory (Page 157) Balance Change Replace the Note section to read as follows: “†Note that units that are not normally allowed to make a Sweeping Advance, such as models with the Heavy Unit Sub-type or that have Legion Cataphractii Terminator Armour, gain no benefit from this Oath.” Oath: Panoply of Old (X) (Page 156) FAQ It should be noted that any Legion-specific upgrades which allow a unit or model to purchase a Special Rule, Unit Type or Sub-type, or so on are permitted to be selected by this Oath as though they were items of Wargear - unless this would be prevented by the inherent restrictions in this Oath. Augmetic Transport Bay (Page 158) Balance Change Add the following to the boxout: “A Legion Rhino Transport that gains this Special Rule may be selected as a Dedicated Transport for a Legion Tactical Squad or Legion Despoiler Squad composed of up to 15 models, rather than 10 models as is normally the case.” With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Selecting Armies for Core Missions (Page 111) Errata Replace the second paragraph to read as follows: “All armies for use in a Core Mission must use a points limit of 3,000 points, or as dictated by the campaign rules or the choice of all players involved in the battles, selected using the Crusade Force Organisation chart, or any Force Organisation Chart which explicitly replaces it. Furthermore, all armies for use in a Core Mission must be selected before the mission is selected or any other stage of battle preparation is taken – this includes selecting any Warlord Traits, Rites of War, Psychic Disciplines or other such options, which must all be noted on the Controlling Player’s Army Roster.” Core Missions & Night Fighting (Various Pages) Balance Change Add the following to this section: “If the Player with Strategic Advantage elects to not activate Night Fighting, the Opposing Player may still have the Night Fighting Rules in effect on a roll of a 4+.” Legiones Consularis: Overseer (Page 177) Balance Change Add the Field Officer Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Mechanised Unit Sub-type (Page 179) Balance Change Change the fifth effect of the Mechanised Sub-type to read as follows: “A model with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type is affected by the Haywire, Detonation and Battlesmith (X) Special Rules as if it had the Dreadnought Unit Type. Any attacks made against a unit with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type are resolved as if the model had the Dreadnought Unit Type. Note that this affects any Wargear, Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.” Cohort Doctrine: Reconnaissance Pattern Cohorts (Page 179) Errata Replace the second Effects bullet point to read as follows: “Solar Auxilia Veletaris Assault Squadrons Solar Auxilia Hermes Veletaris Squadrons in this Detachment gain the Outflank Special Rule.” Hermes Grenade Launcher (Page 180) Balance Change Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Aethon Missile Battery (Page 183) Balance Change Replace the Aethon Missile Battery’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Albian Power Gladius (Page 197) Balance Change Replace the Albian Power Gladius’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Solar Auxilia Lifeward Section (Page 186) Balance Change Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 5. Add the Relentless Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Shadrak Meduson (Page 196) Balance Change Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 6. Legion Optae (Page 200) Balance Change Change the Attacks Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3. Solar Auxilia Aethon Heavy Sentinel Squadron (Page 182) Balance Change Change the upgrade cost for a Autocannon to Free. Change the upgrade cost for a Volkite Culverin to +5 points. Change the upgrade cost for a Lascannon to +10 points. Change the upgrade cost for a Heavy Incinerator to +5 points. Change the upgrade cost for a Melta Lance to +15 points. Change the upgrade cost for 4 Hunter-Killer Missiles to +10 points. Tybalt Marr (Page 192) Balance Change Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile. 79 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR CAMPAIGNS OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:THEMARTIAN CIVILWAR Legion Praevian and Corrupted Engines (Page 123) Balance Change Add the following to this page: “An army that uses the Cohort Doctrine: Iron Pattern Cohort may take a single unit with the Corrupted Engine Unit Sub-type. An army can only include a maximum of one unit with the Corrupted Engine Unit Sub-type chosen in this manner.” Despoiler Cannon (Page 132) Balance Change Replace the Despoiler Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Hellcrusher Claws (Page 132) Balance Change Replace the Hellcrusher Claws’ profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Animatus Malevolence (Cybertheurgic Rite) (Page 155) Balance Change Replace the first paragraph of this Rite to read as follows: “Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Cybertheurgist with this Cybertheurgic Rite may select a single friendly unit within 12" that is entirely composed of contains any models with the Corrupted Engine Unit Sub-type or models with both the Automata Unit Type and the Corrupted Unit Sub-type, and then apply one of the following effects:.” Kaedes Nex (Page 160) Balance Change Replace the Power Armour on this unit’s profile with Artificer Armour. Add the Consul (Moritat) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Blood Slaughterer (Page 130) Balance Change Improve the Maelific Aegis (6+) Special Rule on this unit’s profile with Maelific Aegis (5+), and add the Rage (2) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Selecting Armies for Core Missions (Page 97) Errata Replace the second paragraph to read as follows: “All armies for use in a Core Mission must use a points limit of 3,000 points, or as dictated by the campaign rules or the choice of all players involved in the battles, selected using the Crusade Force Organisation chart, or any Force Organisation Chart which explicitly replaces it. Furthermore, all armies for use in a Core Mission must be selected before the mission is selected or any other stage of battle preparation is taken – this includes selecting any Warlord Traits, Rites of War, Psychic Disciplines or other such options, which must all be noted on the Controlling Player’s Army Roster.” Core Missions & Night Fighting (Various Pages) Balance Change Add the following to this section: “If the Player with Strategic Advantage elects to not activate Night Fighting, the Opposing Player may still have the Night Fighting Rules in effect on a roll of a 4+.” 80 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR LIBER ASTARTES&HERETICUS With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Weapon & Equipment Upgrades (Various Pages) Balance Change If a weapon has its ammunition types replaced in this fashion (such as Banestrike, Shrapnel, Asphyx etc) they may still select a bayonet or chain bayonet as appropriate (in contravention to the GW FAQ), and may still use their weapons to shoot in conjunction with the Fury of the Legion Special Rule, and may gain an additional shot as per that Rule. A weapon can still have upgrades applied to it, even if it has the Master-Crafted Special Rule. Rites of War, Line, and Compulsory Troops (Various Pages) FAQ Some Rites of War will grant the Line Sub-type to units when taken in accordance with their stipulations. This is clearly worded in some instances to only be granted to Compulsory Troops choices – meaning only Compulsory Troops Choices would gain it, and not all troops taken in the detachment – unless they already have the Line Sub-type. The units which are selected as Compulsory Troops and thus gain the Line Sub-type as a result must be clearly noted during the List Construction stage. Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod (Page 64) Balance Change Add the Assault Vehicle Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Legion Leviathan Dreadnought Talon (Page 66) Errata Add the sentence below to the unit’s profile: “*A Leviathan Dreadnought’s bonus attack for being armed with two close combat weapons is already included in its profile.” Legion Tactical Support Squad (Page 48) Balance Change Add the Line Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Legion Glaive (Page 88) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 575 points. Legion Fellblade (Page 89) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 600 points. Legion Falchion (Page 90) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 625 points. Legion Mastodon (Page 93) Balance Change Add a Hull (Front) Magna-Melta Array to this unit’s profile - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Add the Reinforced Shell Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Legion Storm Eagle Gunship (Page 62) Balance Change Change the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted MultiMelta to a Hull (Front) Gravis Melta Cannon. Legion Heavy Support Squad (Page 68) Balance Change Change the upgrade cost for Lascannons to +15 points. Change the upgrade cost for Volkite Culverins to +10 points. Change the option to upgrade to a Multi-Melta to include a Suspensor Web. Legion Xiphon Interceptor (Page 63) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 145 points. Legion Arquitor Squadron (Page 81) Balance Change Change the Front Armour Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 13. Add the Reinforced Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Legion Deathstorm Drop Pod Squadron (Page 83) Balance Change Change the Ballistic Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 4. Legion Sicaran Venator Squadron (Page 73) Balance Change Add the Bombard Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Legion Contemptor Dreadnought Talon (Page 40-41) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 200 points. Change the cost per additional model to 200 points per model. Change the upgrade cost for a Gravis Melta Cannon to +15 points. Change the upgrade cost for a Kheres Assault Cannon to +5 points. Legion Scorpius Squadron (Page 80) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 175 points. Change the cost per additional model to 160 points per model. 81 Rite of War: Angel’s Wrath (Page 97) FAQ A unit that can select a Legion Rhino Transport as a Dedicated Transport may still select a Legion Storm Eagle as a Dedicated Transport even if it is expanded beyond the maximum limit for selecting a Legion Rhino Transport. A unit which would exceed the transport capacity of a Legion Storm Eagle may not select one. Rite of War: Drop Pod Assault (Pages 98 - 99) FAQ For the purposes of the Orbital Assault Vehicle Special Rule, a Drop Pod Assault counts as deploying via Deep Strike Assault. Rite of War: Armoured Spearhead (Page 102) Balance Change Replace the fourth Effects bullet point to read as follows: “In a Detachment using this Rite of War, a single Legion Sicaran Squadron, Legion Predator Squadron, or Legion Kratos Squadron, composed of only a single model, must be selected as a HQ choice. This model gains the Master of the Legion and Legiones Astartes Command Tank Special Rules and must be selected as the army’s Warlord and must use the Master of Armour Warlord Trait (as follows). In this case, the model must be selected as the Warlord despite having the Vehicle Unit Type, and regardless of any other rules that would require another model to be selected as the Warlord (note this means that some units and Characters cannot be selected as part of this army, such as Primarchs).” Add the following bullet point to the Effects: “Legion Predator Squadrons taken as Compulsory Troops choices in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.” Rite of War: Brethren of Iron (Page 102) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the Effects: “All models with the Automata Unit Type selected in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule, where X is the variant of the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule possessed by the Detachment’s Warlord.” Rite of War: Fury of the Ancients (Page 103) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the Limitations: “ - Any model with the Dreadnought Unit Type and the Line Sub-type selected in a Detachment using this Rite of War is worth an additional +1 Victory Point when destroyed by an Opposing Player.” Apothecarion Detachments and Techmarine Covenants (Page 116) FAQ Any Apothecary or Techmarine which selects a Legion Scimitar Jetbike may choose to join any unit equipped with any other pattern of Jetbikes, as long as that unit also meets the other stipulations and requirements of this rule. Auxiliary Vehicle Bay (Page 117) Errata Add the following to the Special Rule: “Models with the Flyer Sub-type, or with a Movement Characteristic of 0, can never embark into an Auxiliary Vehicle Bay. Any model which would normally be prevented from being selected during list construction (such as via a Rite of War) may still be selected if it begins the game embarked upon an Auxiliary Vehicle Bay.” Rite of War: Recon Company (Page 97) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the Effects: “Legion Scout Squads chosen in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Unit Sub-type.” Change the third Effect to read as follows: “A player whose army includes at least one Detachment using this Rite of War may re-roll any dice they roll to see which player takes the first turn (or otherwise has Strategic Advantage), or as well as when attempting to Seize the Initiative or attempt a First Strike.” Rite of War: Pride of the Legion (Page 100) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the Effects: “Legion Veteran Squads taken as Troops Choices in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.” Dreadnought Talon (Page 118) FAQ Add the following to the end of the Special Rule: “Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and similar rules.” Rocket Barrage (Page 124) Balance Change Replace the wording of the Special Rule to read as follows: “If a model that has a weapon with this Special Rule does not move in the Movement phase of a given turn, that weapon gains the Rending (4+) (5+), Shell Shock (1), and Pinning Special Rules until the start of the Controlling Player’s next turn.” Advanced Reaction: Combat Air Patrol (Page 125) FAQ When resolving a Combat Air Patrol Advanced Reaction, the flyer enters the battlefield and shoots entirely during the Movement Phase. As a result, because this is not resolved in the Shooting Phase, the flyer which made this reaction is not able to declare it is using the Skyfire Special Rule. Void Shields (X) (Page 127) FAQ When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded. It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X) Special Rule. 82 Legion Scimitar Jetbikes and Legion Spatha Combat Bikes (Page 144) Balance Change Add the Battle-Hardened (1) and Skilled Rider Special Rules to the rules and abilities provided by these item of wargear. In addition, a model equipped with either a Legion Scimitar Jetbike or Legion Spatha Combat Bike sets their Wounds Characteristic to 2, unless they already have a higher starting Wounds Characteristic. Scout Armour (Page 145) Balance Change Add the Light Sub-type to the rules and abilities provided by this item of wargear. Teleport Strike (Page 147) Balance Change The ability for Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) models to gain Deep Strike via the Teleport Strike Wargear option is also available to Legiones Astartes (Sons of Horus) and Legiones Astartes (Night Lords), as follows: “All models with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists), (Sons of Horus) or (Night Lords) Special Rule in a unit equipped with any form of Terminator Armour may be given the Deep Strike Special Rule for +25 points per unit. Any model with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists), (Sons of Horus) or (Night Lords) Special Rule and the Independent Character Special Rule may be given the Deep Strike Special Rule for +20 points per model.” Krak Grenades (Page 143) Balance Change Replace the wargear’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Lascutter (Page 138) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Paired Lightning Claws (Page 137) FAQ The +2A bonus for being armed with two Lightning Claws can only be claimed if the bearer attacks with the Paired Lightning Claws. If the bearer attacks with any other Specialist Weapons, then they would gain only a single bonus attack as per the standard rules for having multiple Specialist Weapons. Geo-Locator Beacon (Page 142) Errata Replace this Wargear’s effects to read as follows: “As long as a model with this Special Rule equipped with a GeoLocator Beacon is deployed on the battlefield, the Controlling Player may choose to re-roll all failed Reserves rolls they make.” Spicula Rocket System (Page 133) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Gravis Power Fist (Page 137) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Heavy Chainsword (Page 136) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Volkite Carronade (Page 134) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Aiolos Missile Launcher (Page 133) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Grav-Flux Bombard (Page 131) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Grenade Launcher (Secondary) (Page 130) Balance Change Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Volkite Macro-Saker (Page 134) Balance Change Replace the Volkite Macro-Saker profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Suspensor Web (Page 147) FAQ A weapon with a Suspensor Web may be fired as an Assault weapon at half range or less. If a weapon fired in this manner has any Special Rules that rely on range (such as Armourbane (Melta)) then the range required to trigger this Special Rule is calculated based on the weapon’s original range, not the modified range from the Suspensor Web’s effects. Morbus Bombard (Page 129) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Demolisher Cannon (Page 129) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Dreadhammer Siege Cannon (Page 129) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Fellblade Accelerator Cannon (Page 128) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Kratos Battlecannon (Page 128) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profiles with the ones found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. 83 84 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR LIBER ASTARTES With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Ancient of War (Page 169) FAQ The benefits gained from the Ancient of War Special Rule can affect units in a transport which are within 6” of a model with this Special Rule. Swift of Action (Page 176) Balance Change Replace the Special Rule to read as follows: “All models with this Special Rule add +1 to their Movement Characteristic and whenever called upon to make a roll to determine which player will take the First Turn or to Seize the Initiative (or otherwise has Strategic Advantage), the Controlling Player of an army whose Primary Detachment has this Special Rule may roll an additional dice and discard the lowest rolled dice before determining the result. ” Born to the Saddle (Page 178) FAQ Because Cavalry must treat Difficult Terrain as Dangerous, they simply gain the 4+ Invulnerable save granted by this Warlord trait against any Difficult or Dangerous Terrain damage incurred to them as they attempt to pass through it. Legion Shamshir Jetbike (Page 180) Balance Change Change the second paragraph of this wargear to read as follows: “A model with the Infantry Unit Type that selects a Legion Shamshir Jetbike as an upgrade (or is otherwise equipped with one as part of its basic Wargear) must change its Unit Type to Cavalry (Antigrav), keeping any other Unit Sub-types it previously had, changes its Movement Characteristic to 15”* 19”*, gains the Firing Protocols (2), Battle-Hardened (1), Skilled Rider, and Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rules and improves its Armour Save to 2+ if it was worse. A model that is equipped with a Legion Shamshir Jetbike counts as having a Legion Scimitar Jetbike for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.” Inner Circle Knights Cenobium (Page 160) Balance Change Set the Unit Type for the Order Cenobite profile to Infantry (Heavy), and the Unit Type for the Order Preceptor profile to Infantry (Character, Heavy). Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit. Change the upgrade cost for a Thunder Hammer to +5 points per model. Rite of War: Storm of War (Page 154) Balance Change Add the following sentence to the first point in the Effects section to read as follows: “Note that Legion Centurions selected in this manner do not prevent Legion Apothecaries or Legion Techmarines from joining the unit during list construction, contrary to the normal rules around Legion Apothecaries or Legion Techmarines joining units with the Independent Character Special Rule. Any Centurions selected in this manner may not also select a Legion Company Command Squad.” The Regalia of the Shattered Sceptre (Page 169) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Special Rule: “In addition, The Regalia of the Shattered Sceptre confers the Bulky (2) Special Rule, and a unit that includes Marduk Sedras may not make Sweeping Advances.” Jaghatai Khan (Page 182) Balance Change Add the Outflank Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Add the following to this model’s profile: “If Jaghatai Khan selected his Sojutsu Pattern Voidbike, he is counted as having a Legion Scimitar Jetbike for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.” Sojutsu Pattern Voidbike (Page 183) Balance Change Add the following to the fifth bullet point: “Note that even though Jaghatai Khan is counted as having the Cavalry Unit Type whilst upgraded to have a Sojutsu Pattern Voidbike for the purposes of any Rules, he cannot be affected by Narthecium Wargear.” Rite of War: Unbroken Vow (Page 154) Balance Change Add the following point to the Effects section of this Rite of War: “Any Legion Terminator Cataphractii Squads and Legion Terminator Tartaros Squads taken as Compulsory Troops choices in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.” Rite of War: The Eskaton Imperative (Page 153) Balance Change Change the final point in the Effects to read as follows: “All models with the Dreadwing Unit Sub-type in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain +1 to all to-Wound Rolls made against models a unit which has half or more of its models in any zone of Area Terrain or Terrain Piece that counts as Dangerous Terrain (including any models forced to count other types of terrain as Dangerous Terrain by another Special Rule.)” Rite of War: The Serpent’s Bane (Page 155) Balance Change Change the second point in the Effects to read as follows: “At the start of the battle, the Controlling Player must select three enemy units which contain a model selected as a part of a Primarch, HQ, Elites, or Lord of War choice. Primarch, HQ, Elites, or Lord of War choices as Priority Targets and declare the chosen units to their opponent. All models in a unit from this Detachment that includes at least one model with the Firewing Unit Sub-type may add +1 to all To Hit rolls made against these Priority Targets or any unit that a Priority Target has joined. If the enemy army does not include at least three Primarch, HQ, Elites or Lords of War choices then any other units in the enemy army may be designated to fill the remaining required Priority Targets.” Dreadwing Interemptor Squad (Page 162) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 150 points. Change the cost per additional model to 25 points per model. 85 Golden Keshig (Page 184) Balance Change Remove the Heavy Sub-type from this unit’s entry. Ebon Keshig (Page 185) Balance Change Add the following Dedicated Transport text to this unit as follows: “An Ebon Keshig Cohort may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5 models or a unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Winds of Fenris Psychic Power: Stormwrought (Page 203) Balance Change Change the last sentence to read as follows: “If the Check is passed then the effect is improved to Shrouded (3+), if the Check is failed the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule is applied to the target unit and the Psyker suffers Perils of the Warp.” Iliastus Assault Cannon (Pages 229 & 253) Balance Change Change the first bullet point to read as follows: “Any models with the Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels or Imperial Fists) Special Rule and the Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type may exchange a Heavy Flamer or Twin-Linked Heavy Flamer for an Iliastus Assault Cannon for +10 points each. If multiple models in a unit are eligible to upgrade their weapons in this way and any chooses to do so, all models in the unit must be so upgraded.” Change the third bullet point to read as follows: “Any models with the Dreadnought or Vehicle Unit and Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels or Imperial Fists) Special Rule may exchange a Heavy Flamer or Twin-Linked Heavy Flamer for an Iliastus Assault Cannon for +10 +20 points each. If multiple models in a unit are eligible to upgrade their weapons in this way and any chooses to do so, all models in the unit must be so upgraded.” Blood Angels Advanced Reaction (Page 249) Balance Change Change the first sentence to read as follows: “This Advanced Reaction may be made once per battle during the opposing player’s Shooting phase when any enemy player declares a Shooting Attack targeting a unit composed entirely of models with the Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type and the Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels) Special Rule under the Reactive player’s control.” Space Wolves Advanced Reaction (Page 197) FAQ This Advanced Reaction may only be triggered whenever a model specifically starts its movement within 12” of an applicable friendly unit with the Legiones Astartes (Space Wolves) Special Rule. Ungainly (Page 184) Balance Change Replace the wording of this Special Rule to read as follows: “A model may only attack with this weapon on a turn in which it makes a successful Charge Charge (even if that Charge is Disordered), but does not gain a bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules that would normally grant additional Attacks.” Frost Blades (Page 200) Balance Change Change the points cost for a model with the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Space Wolves) Special Rules to exchange a Power Weapon for a Frost Blade (Frost Sword, Frost Axe or Frost Claw) to free. Change the points cost for a model with the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Space Wolves) Special Rules to exchange a Power Weapon for a Great Frost Blade to +5 points. Frost Claw (Page 200) Balance Change Add the following to the weapon’s profile: *A model armed with two Frost Claws gains +2 Attacks, instead of the normal +1 for two melee weapons. Sigismund (Page 236) Balance Change Remove the Eternal Warrior Special Rule from this unit’s profile. Add the Emperor’s Chosen Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Vigil Storm Shield (Page 228) Balance Change Change the Wargear’s effects to read as follows: “Any model with both the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) Special Rule that does not also have the Unique Unit Sub-type may take a Vigil Storm Shield for +15 points. Any model with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) Special Rule and Legion Cataphractii or Legion Tartaros Terminator Armour may exchange a Combi-Bolter for a Vigil Storm Shield for +10 points each. A Vigil Storm Shield provides a 5+ Invulnerable Save or increases an Invulnerable Save the model already has by one step (for example, from 5+ to 4+, to a maximum of 3+). A model with a Vigil Storm Shield may not claim an additional attack for a second weapon in close combat or make attacks with any weapon that has the Two-handed Special Rule.” Rite of War: The Stone Gauntlet (Page 226) Balance Change Replace the third Effect bullet point to read as follows: “Any model in a Detachment using this Rite of War, and with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) Special Rule, with a Boarding Shield, which is in unit coherency with at least two other models that also fit these criteria, may re-roll all failed Invulnerable Saves of 1 made against Shooting Attacks or attacks made during the Fight sub-phase. This bonus may not be claimed if the unit the model is part of has made a Run move, Charge or a Sweeping Advance move in the current player turn, or is Falling Back.” Replace the first Limitation bullet point to read as follows: “A Detachment using this Rite of War must select Phalanx Warder Squads or Legion Breacher Squads to fill all Compulsory Troops choices in the Detachment.” Sanguinius (Page 254) FAQ The Sire of the Blood Angels Special Rule allows any friendly model with the Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels) Special Rule that also deployed via Deep Strike or has a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack to gain +1 WS on a turn in which they Charge. This bonus lasts until the end of the Controlling Player’s turn, at which point it is lost. If a unit that meets these stipulations charges again during the game, it can again gain +1WS until the end of Controlling Player’s turn. The unit may do this multiple times during the course of the game. In addition, this model counts as having a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear. 86 Mantle of the Elder Drake (Page 313) Balance Change Change the points cost of this upgrade to +25 points. Dragon’s Breath (Page 312) Balance Change Add the following text to this Special Rule: “All weapons with this Special Rule gain the Breaching (6+) Special Rule.” Praetorian Breacher Squad (Page 299) Balance Change Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Praetorian Breacher Squad may take a Legion Termite Assault Drill or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Rite of War: The Covenant of Fire (Page 310) Balance Change Change the first Effect to read as follows: “Pyroclast Squads may be chosen as Troops choices in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Unit Sub-type. Legion Tactical Support Squads that include any models with Dragon’s Breath Flamers gain the Heart of the Legion Special Rule.” Rite of War: The Awakening Fire (Page 310) Balance Change Change the first Effect to read as follows: “Salamanders Adherents Squads chosen as Troops choices in a Detachment using this Rite of War lose the Support Squad Special Rule and gain the Line Unit Sub-type.” Invictus Suzerain Squad (Page 298) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 200 points. Change the cost per additional model to 35 points per model. Remove the Character and Line Sub-types from the Unit Type. Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit. Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “An Invictus Suzerain Squad may take a Legion Termite Assault Drill or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Argyrum Pattern Boarding Shield (Page 295) Errata Add the following to the end of the the wargear’s profile: “An Argyrum Pattern Boarding Shield counts as a Boarding Shield for all intents and purposes, including Rites of War, Special Rules, and wargear limitations which either require their use or prevent it (such as a Master of Signals being prevented from taking a Boarding Shield), though it does not confer any of the benefits normally gained from a Boarding Shield from any such sources. In addition, a model armed with an Argyrum Pattern Boarding Shield cannot claim bonus attacks for having more than one melee weapon.” Medusan Immortals (Page 283) Balance Change Add the Relentless Special Rule to the unit’s profile. Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Medusan Immortal Squad may take a Legion Termite Assault Drill or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 10 models. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Gorgon Terminator Squad (Page 282) Balance Change Remove the Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule from this unit’s profile, and add the Augmetics (5+) Special Rule to this unit’s profile instead. Forgebreaker (Page 281) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Talon of Perdition (Page 263) Balance Change Add the following to the weapon’s profile: *A model armed with two Talons of Perdition gains +2 Attacks, instead of the normal +1 for two melee weapons. Iron Hands Gorgon Terminator Armour (Page 279) Balance Change Replace the wargear wording to read as follows: “Any Legion Cataphractii Praetor or Legion Cataphractii Centurion may exchange their Legion Cataphractii Terminator armour for Gorgon Terminator Armour at no additional points cost for +10 points. Gorgon Terminator armour confers a 2+ Armour Save, a 5+ Invulnerable Save, and the Feel No Pain (5+) Augmetics (5+) Special Rule. At the end of any Phase in which a model with Gorgon Terminator armour has passed at least one Armour Save or Invulnerable Save, roll a D6. On the result of a 4+, all enemy units with at least one model within 6" of the model with Gorgon Terminator armour must test as if they had been hit wounded by a weapon with the Blind special rule. Any unit that is composed entirely of models with Gorgon Terminator armour are immune to this effect.” Rite of War: The Logos Lectora (Page 293) FAQ The Limitation requiring an army using this Rite of War does not grant an additional Compulsory HQ slot, to a total of four HQ slots - it simply converts one of the two non-Compulsory HQ slots into a Compulsory one, leaving an army using this Rite of War with two Compulsory HQ slots (one of which must contain either a Master of Signal Consul or a Legion Damocles Command Rhino) and one non-Compulsory HQ slot. Dawnbreaker Cohort (Page 256) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 185 points. Change the cost per additional model to 30 points per model. 87 Shadow and Fury (Page 326) Balance Change Replace the wording of the rule, and the bonuses it offers, to read as follows: “Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule gain one of the following Special Rules based on the Unit Type and Wargear of the model. Models that do not fulfil one of the listed criteria gain no additional benefit. • Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule that have the Infantry Unit Type, but do not also have the Heavy Unit Sub-type or a Legion Warhawk jump pack, Corvid pattern jump pack or Legion Tartaros Terminator armour, but are not equipped with Terminator Armour of any kind, a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack or a Corvid Pattern Jump Pack gain the Talons Special Rule. • Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule that have the Dreadnought or Primarch Unit Types; any models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule and both the Infantry Unit Type and the Heavy Unit Sub-type; that are equipped with or Legion Tartaros Terminator armour Terminator Armour of any variety, a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack or a Corvid Pattern Jump Pack gain the Falcons Special Rule. • Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) special rule that have the Cavalry Unit Type or the both the Vehicle Unit Type and the Fast or Flyer Unit Sub-Types gain the Hawks Special Rule. Talons: If a unit composed entirely of models with the Talons Special Rule is targeted by a Shooting Attack, all models in the unit gain the Shrouded (6+) special rule if the attacking unit is more than 8” from any model in the target unit. In addition, all models with this Special Rule also gain the Infiltrate Special Rule. Falcons: Any models with this Special Rule may re-roll all failed To Wound Hit rolls of 1 in any Assault phase in which they make a successful Charge - even if that Charge is considered Disordered. Hawks: Any models with this Special Rule gain the Shrouded (6+) Special Rule on any turn in which they Run, Move Flat Out or move as a Zooming Flyer, with this benefit lasting until the start of the Controlling Player’s next turn - or if that model would already gain the Shrouded (6+) Special Rule, it gains the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule (if a model already has Shrouded (5+) or better than it gains no additional benefit).” Rite of War: Decapitation Strike (Page 329) Balance Change Change the second Effects bullet point to read as follows: “All models in any unit from a Detachment using this Rite of War assigned to a Deep Strike Assault or Flanking Assault gain the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule for the duration of the Game Turn in which they are deployed to the battlefield until the start of the Controlling Player’s Next Turn when they enter play.” Dawnbringer (Page 315) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Corvus Corax (Page 332) FAQ This model counts as having a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear. 88 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR LIBERHERETICUS With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Tyrant Siege Terminators (Page 186) Balance Change Change the effects of the Omni-Scope wargear to read as follows: “A unit that includes at least one model with an Omni-Scope ignores all the effects of Night Fighting, has the Night Vision Special Rule. In addition, when a unit that includes one or more models equipped with an Omni-Scope makes the Interceptor Advanced Reaction , the reaction does not cost the Controlling Player a point from their Reaction Allotment . This does not allow the unit to make more than one Reaction per Phase, but does allow the Controlling Player to exceed the normal three Reactions limit in a given Phase.” World Eaters Advanced Reaction (Page 215) Balance Change Change the first sentence to read as follows: “This Advanced Reaction may be made once per battle during the opposing player’s Shooting phase when any enemy player declares a Shooting Attack targeting a unit composed entirely of models with the Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type and the Legiones Astartes (World Eaters) Special Rule under the Reactive player’s control.” Phoenix Terminator Squad (Page 158) Balance Change Set the Unit Type for the Phoenix Terminator profile to Infantry, and the Unit Type for the Phoenix Champion profile to Infantry (Character). Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit. Terror Squad (Page 202) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 135 points. Change the cost per additional model to 22 points per model. Change the Wounds Characteristic on the Executioner and Headsman profiles to be 2. Night Raptor Squad (Page 203) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 150 points. Wrack & Ruin (Page 175) FAQ In order to claim the +1 bonus to the Strength Characteristic of an attack, any unit targeted or hit must have one of the Unit Types specified. Captain Lucius (Page 166-167) FAQ In an army containing both Captain Lucius and Fulgrim Transfigured, Captain Lucius does not need to exchange the Blade of the Laer for a Close Combat Weapon. Captain Saul Tarvitz (Page 164) Balance Change Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Violence Incarnate (Page 214) Balance Change Change the Special Rule to read as follows: “On any turn in which a unit model with this Special Rule makes a successful Charge, it gains +1 Attack for the remainder of that turn in addition to any other bonuses, even if that Charge is considered a Disordered Charge.” Nostraman Chain Weapons (Page 198) Balance Change Change the points cost for a model with the Character Sub-type and the Legiones Astartes (Night Lords) Special Rule to exchange a Power Weapon for a Chainblade or Chainglaive to free. Contekar Terminator Squad (Page 204) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 250 points. Change the cost per additional model to 45 points per model. Rite of War: Terror Assault (Page 197) Balance Change Remove the third point in the Limitations section. Add the following to the end of the Effects section of this Rite of War: “Terror Squads taken as Compulsory Troops in a Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.” Palatine Blade Squad (Page 160) Balance Change Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Palatine Blade Squad may take a Legion Rhino Transport, Legion Drop Pod, Legion Termite Assault Drill, or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport. As a Dedicated Transport, this does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Graviton Crusher (Page 180) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Perturabo (Page 182) Balance Change Add the Heavy Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Add a Nuncio-Vox and Cognis Signum to this unit’s wargear. 89 Excoriator Chainaxe (Page 219) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) (Page 232) FAQ Because the Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule means all Death Guard units are counted as stationary for the purposes of shooting, models with Fury of the Legion Special Rule are able to gain its benefits while shooting, even if they have moved, because they are counted as stationary. If a model with the Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule is equipped with a Helical Targeting Array, it may not claim the benefits of the Wargear if it has moved for any reason during the Controlling Player’s preceding Movement Phase. The Prosperine Arcana (Page 255) FAQ Any Minor Arcana selections for your army must be made during army selection. Units with multiple Minor Arcana (such as an Independent Character joining a unit with different Minor Arcana) may use each of them during the relevant phases. Asphyx Shells (Page 258) Balance Change Change the text to read as follows: “Any model with the Legiones Astartes (Thousand Sons) Special Rule may exchange their Bolt Pistol for an Asphyx Bolt Pistol and/or their Bolter for an Asphyx Bolter for 1 point per weapon.” Achea Pattern Force Weapons (Page 259) FAQ As Achea Pattern Force Weapons do not have the Force Special Rule (despite being of the Force type), they do not gain Instant Death when models with the Daemon Unit Type or Corrupted Sub-type, and similarly, the Adamantium Will (X) Special Rule cannot provide a benefit against attacks made with them. Balance Change Remove the following sentence: “(a model with the Independent Character Special Rule may not select this option)” Achean Force (Page 259) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the GW Errata to read as follows: “A model with the Dreadnought Unit Type and a weapon with the Achean Force Special Rule may activate it despite normally being prevented from doing so because they do not have the Psyker Sub-type.” Magnus the Red (Page 260) Balance Change Add the Psychic Mastery (3) Special Rule to the unit’s profile. Sire of the Thousand Sons (Page 260) Balance Change Change the wording of the Special Rule to read as follows: “All models with the Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type in the same army as Magnus the Red with the Psyker Sub-type gain the Adamantium Will (6+) Special Rule (if a model already has a version of this special rule then the value of that Special Rule is increased by one step, for example from (5+) to (4+)) and any model with the Legiones Astartes (Thousand Sons) Special Rule (Including Magnus the Red) that suffers Perils of the Warp reduces the number of Wounds inflicted by 1 (to a minimum of 1 wound). In addition, an army with Magnus the Red as its Warlord gains an additional Reaction in the Opposing Player’s Assault phase, unless Magnus the Red has been removed as a casualty.” Castellax-Achea Automata (Page 266) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 100 points. Change the cost per additional model to 95 points per model. Rite of War: The Achaean Configuration (Page 257) Balance Change Change the second Limitation to read as follows: “A Detachment using this Rite of War must include at least one Legion Techmarine Covenant or Thousand Sons Numerologist Cabal.” Red Sands (Page 221) Balance Change Replace the first sentence to read as follows: “In any given turn Angron may make as many Challenges as there are enemy models with the Chosen Warrior Special Rule, Character Subtype, or Primarch Unit Type locked in combat with him, up to his current number of Attacks.” Rite of War: Berserker Assault (Page 217) Balance Change Change the first Limitation to read as follows: “All units in a Detachment using this Rite of War must declare a Charge in any of the Controlling Player’s Assault Phases where there is at least one model from any enemy unit within 12" and line of sight of a unit selected as part of a Detachment using this Rite of War, and must always target the closest enemy unit if possible. This Charge may not initiate a Multiple Combat.” Ravening Madmen (Page 218) Balance Change Change the first sentence of the Special Rule to read as follows: “Any model making a To Wound roll in the Assault phase against a unit composed entirely of models with this Special Rule reduces its Strength by -1 when determining the score required To Wound (this does not affect the attacking unit’s Strength for the purposes of inflicting Instant Death).” Falax Blades (Page 219) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Ahzek Ahriman (Page 270) Balance Change Add the Psychic Mastery (2) Special Rule to the unit’s profile. Psy-Automata Unit Sub-type (Page 267) Balance Change Replace the third bullet point with the following: “Models with the Psy-Automata Unit Sub-type may declare a charge in the same turn in which they shoot a Rapid-Fire Weapon.” 90 Corrupted (Page 307) Errata Replace the last sentence to read as follows: “No model unit that does not also have the Corrupted Unit Sub-type or the Daemon Unit Type may join a unit that includes one or more models with the Corrupted Unit Sub-type.” Dark Channelling (Page 306) Balance Change Replace the wording of Dark Channelling to read as follows: “Any unit with the Traitor Allegiance, and the Infantry, Dreadnought, or Cavalry Unit Type as well as the Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) special rule may be upgraded with Dark Channelling for +25 points per unit. All models in a unit with this upgrade gain the Corrupted Unit Sub-type.” Tainted Weapon (Page 306) Balance Change Replace the wording of Tainted Weapon to read as follows: “Any model with the Character Sub-type, and the Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) Special Rule may exchange a Power Weapon for a Tainted Blade, Tainted Axe or Tainted Maul for +10 +5 points each:” Diabolist (Page 308) Balance Change Replace the option to select the Diabolist Consul upgrade to read as follows: “A Legion Centurion, Legion Cataphractii Centurion, or Legion Tartaros Centurion with the Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) Special Rule and the Traitor Allegiance may be upgraded to a Diabolist:” Rite of War: The Dark Brethren (Page 305) FAQ The bonuses gained from points of Favour from this Rite of War are applied to unit itself - meaning that if an Independent Character had joined a unit which was then given the Favour point, the Independent Character would benefit from the bonuses provided until they leave the unit - at which point they would no longer benefit from it. Similarly, if the Independent Character was given the Favour point and then joined a unit, the unit would benefit from the bonuses until the Independent Character leaves the unit. If an Independent Character was already joined to a unit when a Favour point was assigned, it should be made clear which of either the unit or the Independent Character were given the Favour point. A unit can never benefit from from more than three instances of Favour of the Dark Gods, and only models in the Detachment with this Rite of War may gain the benefits from points of Favour. Unswerving Devotion (Page 304) Balance Change Change the wording of the Warlord Trait to read as follows: “Any friendly units that include at least one model with the Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) special rule and have at least one model within 6" of a Warlord with this Trait (including the Warlord himself and any unit he has joined) automatically pass the first failed Morale check or Pinning test they are called upon to make each turn. In addition, an army whose Warlord has this Trait may make an additional Reaction during the opposing players Shooting phase as long as the Warlord has not been removed as a casualty.” Garviel Loken (Page 295) Balance Change Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Errata Replace the wording of the Born Survivor Special Rule to read as follows: “The first time in any battle when a model with this Special Rule is reduced to 0 Wounds for any reason or otherwise removed from play as a casualty, the Controlling Player must immediately make a Leadership test for that model. If the Test is failed then the model is removed as a casualty as normal, but if the Test is passed then the Warlord model is not removed as a casualty, but instead remains in play and regains D3 Wounds.” Reaver Attack Squad (Page 292) Balance Change Change the cost of Power Weapons to +5 points each. Change the cost of Charnabal Weapons to +5 points each. Add the Outflank Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Maloghurst the Twisted (Page 293) Balance Change Add the Broken Soul Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Justaerin Terminator Squad (Page 290) Balance Change Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Justaerin Terminator Squad may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5 models or a unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Rite of War: Black Reaving (Page 283) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Effects section of this Rite of War: “The Deep Strike Special Rule conferred by this Rite of War is also conferred to any models with the Character Sub-type that join a unit given it by the Rite of War. The Outflank Special Rule conferred by any source is also conferred to any models with the Character Sub-type that join a unit which possesses it in a Detachment using this Rite of War.” Horus Lupercal (Pages 286 - 287) FAQ The Master of Weapons Special Rule would normally prevent a model striking Horus Lupercal in close combat on a roll of 2 or 3. If a model has a Special Rule or other ability that would allow it to modify its close combat hit rolls, this would allow them to hit Horus Lupercal on a lower roll. 91 Rite of War: Coils of the Hydra (Page 333) Balance Change In contravention to the GW FAQ, you may select up to three different units via the Rewards of Treachery Special Rule, but these must all have the same variant of the Legiones Astartes Special Rule (for example, Legiones Astartes (Iron Warriors)) on their unit profile. Any units selected via the Rewards of Treachery Special Rule change their allegiance to match that of the Detachment they are taken in. Everywhere and Nowhere (Page 337) FAQ If Alpharius has been selected as the Leader of a Retinue of any kind, the unit selected in this manner does not count towards the 3 unit limit for this rule. The Power of the Word (Page 311) Errata Replace the first sentence to read as follows: “Any unit with the Legion Command Squad, Legion Cataphractii Command Squad or Legion Tartaros Command Squad Retinue Special Rule selected as a Retinue Squad with Lorgar as its Leader gains the Fearless and Feel No Pain (4+ ) Special Rules.” Alpharius (Page 336) Balance Change Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Add a Nuncio-Vox to this unit’s wargear. Lernaean Terminator Squad (Page 338) Balance Change Change the cost of Power Fists to +5 points each. Change the cost of Chainfists to +10 points each. Exodus (Page 340) Balance Change Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Argel Tal (Page 318) FAQ This model counts as having a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear. 92 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR LEGACIES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:LEGIONESASTARTES With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Legion Indomitus Terminator Squad (Page 17) Balance Change Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Legion Indomitus Terminator Squad may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5 models. A unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Legion Castra Ferrum Dreadnought Talon (Page 13) Balance Change Increase the base points cost of the unit to 150 Points. Change the cost per additional model to 150 points per model. Replace the option to purchase a Multi-Melta for +20 points for an option to purchase a Gravis Melta Cannon for +15 points. Legion Nullificator Squad (Pages 11 - 12) Balance Change Replace the wording of the Hexagrammatic Wards Special Rule to read as follows: “Any roll To Wound for an attack made with a Psychic Weapon against a model with this special rule suffers a penalty of -1. When a model with this Special Rule suffers a wound from a Psychic Weapon or a Psychic Power, or from any attack made by a model with the Daemon or Corrupted Unit Type or Sub-type, the model may re-roll any failed Invulnerable Saves it makes.” Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Legion Nullificator Squad may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5 models. A unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Legion Spatha Attack Bike Squadron (Page 15) Balance Change Add the Support Squad, Hit & Run, and Outflank Special Rules to this unit’s entry. Change the Wounds Characteristic on the Legion Spatha Attack Bike profile to be 3. Change the upgrade cost for Multi-Meltas to +15 points. Legion Tarantula Sentry Gun Battery (Page 16) Balance Change Increase the base points cost of the unit to 60 Points. Remove the Bulky (4) Special Rule from this unit’s entry. Add the Immobile Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Replace the wording of the Sentry Protocols Special Rule entirely to read as follows: “A model with this Special Rule must target the closest enemy model as per the following limitations and restrictions: - Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 7 or more must target the nearest enemy model with the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought Sub-types. - Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 6 or below must target the nearest enemy model without the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought Sub-types. - Any model armed with a weapon with the Skyfire Special Rule must target the nearest enemy model with the Flyer Sub-type. If no such target is in range, then the Controlling Player may select a target as normal.” Change the profile of the Tarantula Sentry Gun to the below: M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv Tarantula Sentry Gun - - 3 5 5 2 - - 5 3+ Legion Land Raider Phobos (Page 22) Balance Change In any instance where you may choose to select a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier, such as as a Dedicated Transport or via a Rite of War, you may instead choose to select a Legion Land Raider Phobos instead. Legion Spatha Attack Bike (Page 15) Balance Change Add the following to the effects of the Legion Spatha Attack Bike wargear: “A model equipped with a Legion Spatha Attack Bike must change its Unit Type to Cavalry, keeping any Unit Sub-types it previously had, and may choose to gain the Skirmish Unit Sub-type. In addition, the model must change its Movement Characteristic to 14 and gains the Firing Protocols (2), Battle-Hardened (1), Skilled Rider, and Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rules.” Legion Primus Nullificator Consul (Page 9) Balance Change A model with this Legiones Consularis upgrade increases his Leadership Characteristic to 10. Change the first line of the Wargear section to read as follows: “A Legion Primus Nullificator must may exchange their Power Weapon for an Aether-Shock Maul at no additional points cost.” Legion Land Raider Achilles (Page 23) Balance Change Replace the Hull (Front) Mounted Achillus Quad Launcher with a Hull (Front) Mounted Quad Launcher (with Frag, Shatter, Splinter, and Incendiary shells). 93 Legion Malcador Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 29) Balance Change Replace all references to ‘Side (X) Mounted’ weapons with ‘Hull (X) Mounted’ instead. Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Replace the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Gravis Lascannon for an option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon and One Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon to +15 points. Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Front) Mounted Demolisher Cannon to +35 points. Replace the wording of the Independent Fire Control Special Rule entirely, to read as follows: “A model with this Special Rule may remain stationary, move at Combat Speed, or Cruising Speed, and still fire all of its weapons as though it had the Super-Heavy Sub-type. Note that this does not grant any of the other benefits of the Super-Heavy Sub-type.” Legion Minotaur Battery (Page 30) Balance Change Replace the Hull Centreline (Rear) Mounted Twin-Linked Earthshaker cannon with a Centreline (Rear) Mounted Earthshaker Battery - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Legion Caestus Assault Ram (Page 28) Balance Change Change the Movement Characteristic on the Legion Caestus Assault Ram’s profile to be 18”. Decrease the Transport Capacity on the Legion Caestus Assault Ram’s profile to be 12. Add the Afterburner, Caestus Prow, and Inertia Suppression Clamps Special Rules to this unit’s entry. Legion Whirlwind Squadron (Page 27) Balance Change Add the Bombard Sub-type to the Unit Type. Replace the Whirlwind Missile Launcher Talonis HE Missile’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Legion Stormblade (Page 31) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 500 Points. Replace the Plasma Blastgun’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Bolter to this unit’s profile. Legion Basilisk Squadron (Page 25) Balance Change Replace the Earthshaker Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Legion Medusa Squadron (Page 26) Balance Change Replace the Medusa Mortar’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Legion Baneblade (Page 35) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points. Replace the Baneblade Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Legion Stormsword (Page 39) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 525 Points. Replace the Hellhammer Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Legion Stormlord (Page 37) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points. Increase the Transport Capacity to 32 models. Add the Tank Desant (10) and Assault Vehicle Special Rules to this unit’s entry. Replace the Vulcan Mega-Bolter’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Legion Shadowsword (Page 38) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 550 Points. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Legion Banehammer (Page 36) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 500 Points. Increase the Transport Capacity to 22 models. Add the Tank Desant (10) Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Replace the Tremor Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. 94 Nomus Rhy’Tan (Page 68) Balance Change Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on Nomus Rhy’Tan’s profile to be 6. Add the It Will Not Die (5+) Special Rule to this Character’s entry. Add the following to Nomus Rhy’Tan’s profile: “In addition, all models in a unit joined by Nomus Rhy’tan gain the Stubborn and Hatred (Everything) Special Rules.” Change the first sentence of the Keeper of the Keys Warlord Trait to read as follows: “Any model with the Dreadnought Unit Type and the Legiones Astartes (Salamanders) Special Rule within 6” of a Warlord with this Trait in the same detachment as a Warlord with this Trait may add +2" to their Charge Distance.” Replace Darkstar Falling’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Fulmentarus Terminator Squad (Page 63) Balance Change Replace the Hellfire Plasma Missile’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Cassian Dracos Reborn (Page 67) Balance Change Add an Iron Halo and Nuncio Vox to Cassian Dracos Reborn’s Wargear. Add the Ferromantic Invulnerability Special Rule to Cassian Dracos Reborn’s Profile. Add the Cybertheurgist and Character Sub-types to Cassian Dracos Reborn’s profile. Change the second paragraph of the Avatar of the Sacred Flames Special Rule to read as follows: “In addition, if Cassian Dracos Reborn is selected as the army’s Warlord in a Blackshields Detachment, you can include Salamanders Adherents Squads as part of that Detachment as Elites Choices. If you do so, replace their Legiones Astartes (Salamanders) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule, the unit gains the Line Sub-type, and remove their Support Squad Special Rule.” Change Cassian Dracos Reborn’s profile to the below: M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv Cassian Dracos Reborn 6 6 5 6 7 6 4 4 10 2+ Honoured Telemechrus (Page 62) Balance Change Honoured Telemechrus grants the benefit of a Legion Vexilla to all friendly Legiones Astartes (Ultramarines) units which have at least one model within 12”. Add the Character Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Firewing Enigmatus Cabal (Pages 52 - 53) Errata Remove the following sentence from the Blade Charge Special Rule: “This does not replace or improve any other versions of the Rending (X) special rule already possessed by the unit.” Excindio Battle Automata (Page 54) FAQ For the purposes of the Dreadnought Transport Special Rule, a model with this Special Rule is counted as having the Dreadnought Unit Type. Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 300 Points. Replace the Inbuilt Refractor Field Wargear on this model with an Atomantic Deflector. When the model loses its last wound, increase the explosion range by +4”. In addition, add the following to the bullet points of effects provided by the Shackled Artificia Unit Type: “Any attacks made against a unit with the Shackled Artificia Unit Type are resolved as if the model had the Dreadnought Unit Type, for the purposes of resolving these attacks. Note that this affects any Wargear, Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.” Legion Praetor Armoured Assault Launcher (Page 43) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points. Replace the Praetor Launcher on this unit’s profile with a Centreline Mounted Praetor Launcher - see profile in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Legion Crassus Armoured Assault Transport (Page 42) Balance Change Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of the Crassus Assault Transport to 48. Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Farith Redloss (Page 45) Balance Change Add the Consul (Siege Breaker) Special Rule to Farith Redloss’ profile. Legion Macharius Omega Heavy Tank (Page 41) Balance Change Move this unit from a Lord of War selection to a Heavy Support selection. Add the Exposed Compartment Special Rules to this unit’s profile. Locutarus Storm Squad (Page 65) Balance Change Change the cost per additional model to 30 points per model. Legion Macharius Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 40) Balance Change Move this unit from a Lord of War selection to a Heavy Support selection. Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 350 Points, and the cost to add an additional model to 335 Points. Change the number of additional models that can be included in the unit to 2. Replace the Macharius Battlecannon, Macharius Vanquisher Battlecannon, and Macharius Rotary Bolt Cannon’s profiles with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. 95 Xiaphas Jurr (Page 69) Balance Change Add the It Will Not Die (5+) Special Rule to this Character’s entry. Add the following to Xiaphas Jurr’s profile: “In addition, all models in a unit joined by Xiaphas Jurr gain the Stubborn and Hatred (Everything) Special Rules.” Change the first sentence of the Beacon of Hope Warlord Trait to read as follows: “In addition, if Xiaphas Jurr is selected as the army’s Warlord in a Blackshields Detachment, you can include Salamanders Adherents Squads as part of that Detachment as Elites Choices. If you do so, replace their Legiones Astartes (Salamanders) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule, the unit gains the Line Sub-type, and remove their Support Squad Special Rule.” Rylanor The Unyielding (Page 73) Balance Change Add the It Will Not Die (5+), Hatred (Traitors), and Shattered Legionary Special Rules to Rylanor The Unyielding’s Profile. Add the Character Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Rylanor The Unyielding grants the benefit of a Legion Vexilla to all friendly Legiones Astartes (Emperor’s Children) units which have at least one model within 12”. Strike Captain Alvarex Maun (Page 71) Balance Change Add a Refractor Field to this unit’s profile. The Tormentor (Page 74) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 750 Points. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Replace the Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Bolter in this unit’s entry with a Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Shrapnel Cannon. Replace the Hull (Left) Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Bolter and Hull (Right) Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Bolter in this unit’s entry with two Sponson Mounted Twin-Linked Shrapnel Cannons. Replace the Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon and Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon in this unit’s entry with two Sponson Mounted Lascannons. Erasmus Golg (Page 76) Errata Add the Traitor Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Iron Havocs (Page 75) Balance Change Replace the Ferrum Occularis Wargear wording to read as follows: “Shooting Attacks made using a weapon with the Heavy type by a model with a Ferrum Occularis gain the Sunder Special Rule, as long as the attack is not made as part of a Reaction or a Snap Shot.” Marshal Durak Rask (Page 87) Balance Change Change the Wounds Characteristic on Marshal Durak Rask’s profile to be 3. Change the ‘One Phosphex Bomb’ on Marshal Durak Rask’s profile to ‘Three Phosphex Bombs’. Kheron Ophion of the Kyroptera (Page 80) Balance Change Replace the Power Armour on this unit’s profile with Artificer Armour. Reaver Aggressor Squad (Page 89) Balance Change Change the cost of Power Weapons to +5 points each. Change the cost of Charnabal Weapons to +5 points each. Autilon Skorr (Page 90) Errata Remove the Traitor Special Rule from this unit’s entry. Vengeance Weapon Battery (Page 93) Balance Change Add the Hardwired Defences Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Advanced Reaction: Void Shield Envelope (Page 94) Balance Change Replace the wording of the Void Shield Envelope Advanced Reaction to read as follows: “This Advanced Reaction may be made during the Shooting phase whenever an enemy unit targets a friendly unit that has at least half of its models within 6” of a friendly Void Shield Generator with a Shooting Attack, excluding friendly units that include any models with the Monstrous, Gargantuan, Knight, Titan, Super-Heavy or Flyer SubTypes. Before the Active player has resolved any Hit rolls, the Reactive player may choose to expend one of their Reactions for that Phase to have the unit targeted by the Shooting Attack gain the Shrouded (4+) Special Rule an Invulnerable Save of 4+ until the end of the Shooting phase. Note that this Advanced Reaction does not improve nor replace any existing instances of the Shrouded (X) Special Rule Invulnerable saves that a unit may have. The unit that has gained the Shrouded (4+) Special Rule an Invulnerable Save as a result of this Reaction does not count as having made a Reaction, and may itself make a Reaction provided it would otherwise be able to do so, and the Reactive player has sufficient Reaction allotment remaining in that Phase.” Hammerfall Bunker (Page 99) Balance Change Add the Hardwired Defences and Power of the Machine Spirit Special Rules to this unit’s profile. Replace the Hammerfall Strike Special Rule’s wording entirely to read as follows: “Rather than deploying this Fortification as per the usual rules for Fortifications, you may choose instead to assign it to a Drop Pod Assault or Deep Strike Assault as normal. If assigned in this manner to one of the specified deployment methods, the Hammerfall Bunker gains the Orbital Assault Vehicle, Inertial Guidance System, and Deep Strike Special Rules. This does allow you to place the Hammerfall Bunker outside of your Deployment Zone. Note that this is an exception to the normal rules for Fortifications, and if assigned in this way, you may choose to select a Hammerfall Bunker in a Rite of War: Drop Pod Assault detachment.” Shabran Darr (Page 83) Balance Change Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Crysos Mortug (Page 85) Balance Change Add the The Black Shield Special Rule to this unit’s profile. 96 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR LIBERMECHANICUM With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Mechanicum Acastus Knight Asterius (Page 55) Balance Change Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted. Replace the two Arm Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Conversion Beam Cannons with two Arm Mounted Conversion Destructors - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Ordinatus Ulator (Page 56) Balance Change Add Searchlights to this unit’s wargear. Ordinatus Aktaeus (Page 57) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 700 points. Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Archmagos Anacharis Scoria (Page 62) Balance Change Add the Stubborn Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Forbidden Protocols (Page 62) Errata Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait: “Note that this Warlord Trait can affect a unit which Archmagos Anacharis Scoria has joined, even though this would normally not be permitted as the unit would no longer be a unit containing only Automata.” Rites of the Beast (Page 63) Errata Replace this Special Rule to read as follows: “Anacharis Scoria has the Artificia Machina, Artificia Cybernetica, Ephemera Incursus, and Anima Malefica Cybertheurgic Arcana, and has all Rites and weapons that are part of those Arcana. In addition, Archmagos Anacharis Scoria provides all effects, benefits, and rules (and gains any wargear, Special Rules, or other effects applicable to himself) that an Archmagos with the Cybernetica Arcana would to the detachment he is in.” Karacnos Assault Tank (Page 48) Balance Change Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted. Thanatar Siege-Automata Maniple (Page 46) Balance Change Change the value of the Hammer of Wrath Special Rule on this unit’s profile to Hammer of Wrath (3). Add the following to the wargear section on the unit’s profile: One Shock Charger (Thanatar-Calix only) Scyllax Guardian-Automata Maniple (Page 36) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 100 points. Add the Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Arlatax Battle-Automata Maniple (Page 40) Balance Change Replace the two Power Blade Arrays with in-built Light Autocannons on this unit’s profile with two Arlatax Power Claws with in-built Light Autocannons - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Change the upgrade cost for an Arc Scourge to +10 points. Ursarax Cohort (Page 41) Balance Change Change the Strength Characteristic on the unit’s profile to be 5. Change the second bullet point in the unit’s options to read as follows: “For every three models in the unit, one Any Ursarax may exchange their two lightning claws for:” Adsecularis Tech-Thrall Covenant (Page 34) Balance Change Change the value of the Armour Save on this unit’s profile to be 5+. Myrmidon Secutor Host (Page 32) Balance Change Change the upgrade cost for Graviton Guns to +10 points. Change the upgrade cost for Phased Plasma Fusils to +15 points. Warlord Battle Titan (Page 72) Balance Change Change the Void Shields (6) Special Rule on this unit’s profile to Void Shields (8). High Techno-arcana: Stataraga (Page 61) Errata Add the following to the end of this Special Rule: “In addition, when selected as a Troops Choice in a Questoris Knights Detachment, Archmagos Draykavac gains the Patris Cybernetica Special Rule.” Advanced Reaction: Scornful Fire (Page 17) FAQ / Balance Change To match the order of operations found in all other Reactions and Advanced Reactions, any Shooting Attacks made as part of this Advanced Reaction are resolved after all To Hit and To Wound rolls, and Armour Saves are made, but before any Damage Mitigation rolls are made or casualties removed by the Shooting Attack that triggered this Advanced Reaction. 97 Questoris Knight Styrix (Page 84) Balance Change Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile. Questoris Knight Magaera (Page 85) Balance Change Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile. 0-1 Questoris Knight Atrapos (Page 86) Balance Change Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile. 0-1 Questoris Acastus Knight Asterius (Page 87) Balance Change Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted. Replace the two Arm Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Conversion Beam Cannons with two Arm Mounted Conversion Destructors - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Armiger Unit Type (Page 90) Errata Add the following to the Armiger Unit Type: “A unit with the Armiger Unit Type cannot be destroyed as a result of a Sweeping Advance made by a unit with the Infantry Unit Type. A unit with the Armiger Unit Type automatically passes any Pinning tests they would be required to make. Any attacks made against a unit with the Armiger Unit Type are resolved as if the Armigers have the Dreadnought Unit Type, for the purposes of resolving these attacks. Note that this affects any Wargear, Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.” Paragon Unit Sub-type (Page 91) Balance Change Add the following to the Paragon Unit Sub-type: “In contravention to the GW FAQ, a unit with the Paragon Sub-type may make Reactions, ignoring restrictions from any Unit Type or Subtype that would prevent it from doing so, as long as the Controlling Player has Reaction allotment available.” Household Ranks (Page 88) Balance Change Add the following to the Household Ranks section: “If an Imperial Knight selects any Household Rank, Dark Blessing, or Holy Benediction (other than Aspirant, Seneschal, Heedless Slaughter, Conqueror of Worlds), it increases its Hull Points Characteristic by +1. A Knight which selects the Seneschal Household Rank or Conqueror of Worlds Dark Blessing instead increases its Hull Points Characteristic by +2.” Implacable (Page 89) Balance Change Change the wording of the Implacable Special Rule to read as follows: “An attack targeting a model with this Special Rule reduces the number of Hull Points of damage inflicted from any attack by -1, to a minimum of 1, and reduces all rolls on the vehicle damage table by 1.” Acastus Knight Porphyrion (Page 83) Balance Change Replace the Two Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Magna Lascannons on this unit’s profile with Two Hull (Front) Mounted Magna Lascannons. Lacyraemarta (Page 99) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Opus Viscera Sub-Heading: “This ability may not be used on any unit which is locked in combat, and may only be used on units composed entirely of models from the Mechanicum Faction.” Cybernetica Exortus (Cybertheurgic Rite) (Page 94) FAQ As the ability to ignore a Wound inflicted upon the unit happens before any allocation is done, Special Rules like Brutal (X) and so on would not trigger on a Wound so discarded. Balance Change Replace the first bullet point to read as follows: “When making a Charge roll for the unit in the same turn as this Rite is used, as long as the unit contains at least one model with the Automata Unit Type, roll an additional dice and discard the lowest rolled dice before determining the results of the Charge roll.” Replace the third bullet point to read as follows: “The unit may add either +1 to its Ballistic Skill or Weapon Skill Characteristics (to a maximum of 5) for the remainder of the Shooting phase in which this power is used until the end of the Controlling Player’s current turn.” Ephemera Perfidiae (Cybertheurgic Rite) (Page 95) Balance Change Replace the wording of this Cybertheurgic Rite to read as follows: “Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Cybertheurgist with this Cybertheurgic Rite may select a single enemy unit with a model within 12" that is entirely composed of models with the Vehicle, Dreadnought, or Automata Unit Type (but not any models with the Super-Heavy, Lumbering, Titan, or Knight Sub-types). The Cybertheurgist’s Controlling Player may immediately make a Shooting Attack as if they controlled the chosen unit – this Shooting Attack may target any unit that is considered an enemy unit by the Cybertheurgist’s Controlling Player and is made as Snap Shots. The Cybertheurgist may choose to make a Cybertheurgy check before making this Shooting Attack, and if successful the Shooting Attack is made using the Cybertheurgist’s BS and is not made as Snap Shots. If the Check is failed then the Cybertheurgist suffers Cybertheurgic Feedback and no Shooting Attack is made. An enemy unit used to make a Shooting Attack with this Rite may attack normally in its Controlling Player’s turn and gains the Hatred (Cybertheurgists) Special Rule for the rest of the battle.” Ephemera Exocluo (Cybertheurgic Weapon) (Page 95) Balance Change Replace the Blind Special Rule on this Cybertheurgic Weapon’s profile with the Sensor Flare Special Rule. Armiger and Moirax Talons (Page 102) FAQ Add the following to the end of the Special Rule: “Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and similar rules.” Binaric Stratagems (Page 102) Balance Change It should be noted that if a model is not equipped with a Kyropatris Field Generator, they may not claim the benefits of any Special Rule or effect provided by the Binaric Stratagems Special Rule - even if these Special Rules or effects would normally be conferred, such as the Preferred Enemy (X) Special Rule. 98 Laser Blaster (Page 117) Balance Change Replace the Laser Blaster’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Belicosa Volcano Cannon (Page 117) Balance Change Replace the Belicosa Volcano Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Nemesis Volcano Cannon (Page 117) Balance Change Replace the Nemesis Volcano Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Vulcan Mega-Bolter (Page 114) Balance Change Replace the Vulcan Mega-Bolter’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Avenger Gatling Cannon (Page 114) Balance Change Replace the Avenger Gatling Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Rapid-Fire Battle Cannon (Page 113) Balance Change Replace the Rapid-Fire Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Mori Quake Cannon (Page 113) Balance Change Replace the Mori Quake Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Nemesis Quake Cannon (Page 113) Balance Change Replace the Nemesis Quake Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Thanatar Maniple (Page 110) FAQ Add the following to the end of the Special Rule: “Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and similar rules.” Void Shields (X) (Page 111) FAQ When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded. It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X) Special Rule. Pride of Place (Page 106) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Pride of Place Special Rule: “A model with this Special Rule may ignore the restrictions applied by it if the Unit with the Transport Sub-type they are attempting to Embark onto also has the Super-Heavy Sub-type. In addition, a model with this Special Rule gains the Bulky (X) Special Rule, where X is equal to the model’s starting Wounds Characteristic.” Reactor Overload (Page 106) FAQ Any Wounds or Hull Points of Damage caused by this Special Rule are only resolved once the Shooting Attack has been fully resolved. Paragon of Metal (Page 106) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Paragon of Metal Special Rule: “A model which has this Special Rule changes their Armour Save to 2+.” God-Engine (Page 104) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the God-Engine Special Rule: “In addition, all units wholly within 18” of a model with this Special Rule and which have a Kyropatris Field Generator gain the Line Sub-type.” Feudal Hierarchy (Page 104) Errata Change the Feudal Hierarchy Special Rule to read as follows: “A single Detachment may not include both an Archmagos Prime and an Archmagos Prime on Abeyant only ever include a single model with this Special Rule.” Disruption (X) (Page 103) Balance Change Change the Disruption (X) Special Rule to read as follows: “To Hit rolls of the value X indicated made by a weapon with this Special Rule cause an automatic Glancing Hit against models with the Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration, and an automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought, Automata, or Armiger Unit Types, instead of rolling To Wound. On weapons which do not roll to Hit, such as Template or Blast Weapons, a D6 should be rolled for every applicable target - a roll of X or higher causes an automatic Glancing Hit against models with the Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration, and an automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought, Automata, or Armiger Unit Types. Only Invulnerable Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls may be taken against Wounds or Hull Points of damage inflicted automatically by this Special Rule.” Destructor (Page 103) Balance Change Change the Destructor Special Rule to read as follows: “Any model which suffers an unsaved Wound or Hull Point loss from a weapon with this Special Rule does not suffer only one Wound or Hull Point of damage, but instead suffers D6 Wounds or Hull Points of damage instead, with all of the Wounds or Hull Points inflicted using the same AP and special rules as that of the initial Wound. Roll to save against each Wound or Hull Point of damage inflicted separately, but note that Wounds or Hull Points of damage caused in excess of a given model’s remaining Wounds or Hull Points do not spill over to other models and are lost. In addition, if the target of this attack is a model with the Knight, Titan, Gargantuan, Super-Heavy Vehicle, or Building or Fortification Unit Type, or the Monstrous Unit Sub-type, increase the number of Wounds suffered or Hull Points lost to 2D6.” Phaeton Autocannon (Page 114) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profiles with the ones found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. 99 Reaper Chainblade (Page 120) Balance Change Replace the Reaper Chainblade’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Reaper Chainfist (Page 120) Balance Change Replace the Reaper Chainfist’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Reaper Chainsword (Page 120) Balance Change Replace the Reaper Chainsword’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Las-Impulsor (Melee) (Page 121) Balance Change Replace the Las-Impulsor’s Melee profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Atrapos Phasecutter (Melee) (Page 121) Balance Change Replace the Atrapos Phasecutter’s Melee profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Shock Charger (Page 123) Balance Change Replace the Shock Charger’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Graviton Ram (Melee) (Page 121) Balance Change Replace the Graviton Ram’s Melee profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Thunderstrike Gauntlet (Page 122) Balance Change Replace the Thunderstrike Gauntlet’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Power Blade Array (Page 122) Balance Change Replace the Power Blade Array’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Shock Lance (Melee) (Page 123) Balance Change Replace the Shock Lance’s Melee profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Ordinatus Dispersion Shield (Page 126) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description: “In subsequent Game Turns after the first, the Ordinatus Dispersion Shield counts as a Flare Shield.” Ionic Deflector (Page 126) Balance Change Change the wargear’s description to read as follows: “A model with an Ionic Deflector gains a 5+ Invulnerable Save, and any model with an Ionic Deflector and a Wounds Characteristic gains the Eternal Warrior Special Rule that suffers an unsaved Wound with the Instant Death Special Rule is not immediately removed as a casualty, but instead loses D3 Wounds instead of one for each unsaved Wound with the Instant Death Special Rule inflicted on it. In addition, when a model with an Ionic Deflector loses its last Wound or Hull Point, but before it is removed as a casualty or replaced with a Wreck, all models both friendly and enemy within D6+3" suffer an automatic Hit at Str 8, AP -.” Scyllax Combat Array (Page 120) Balance Change Replace the Scyllax Combat Array’s Dismember profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Terrebrax Rocket Battery (Page 118) Balance Change Replace the Terrebrax Rocket Battery’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Volkite Chieorovile (Page 119) Balance Change Replace the Volkite Chieorovile’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Volkite Veuglaire (Page 119) Balance Change Replace the Volkite Veuglaire’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Stratos Thrusters (Page 130) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description: “On a Game Turn in which a model armed with Stratos Thrusters activates them, they may elect to gain the Skyfire Special Rule for all Ranged Weapons they are armed with. In addition, a model equipped with Stratos Thrusters also gains the Deep Strike Special Rule. A model with an activated set of Stratos Thrusters may move over both friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain they move over as they make their move, though they must still take Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move in terrain that would require them to do so.” Utan Jump Booster (Page 130) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description: “A model with an activated Utan Jump Booster may move over both friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain they move over as they make their move, though they must still take Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move in terrain that would require them to do so.” Incunabulan Jet Pack (Page 130) Balance Change Add the following sentence to the end of the first paragraph to read as follows: “This extra move can only be made in the Controlling Player's own Shooting Phase.” Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description: “A model with an activated Incunabulan Jet Pack may move over both friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain they move over as they make their move, though they must still take Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move in terrain that would require them to do so. It should be noted that, for the purposes of Reactions, an Incunabulan Jet Pack is classed as having being activated for the purposes of moving over any models or terrain.” 100 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR LEGACIES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:MECHANICUM With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Inar Satarael (Page 2) Balance Change Remove the Anti-Grav Sub-type from this unit's profile. Add the Born of Steel Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Adsecularis Tech-Thrall Certus Covenant (Page 3) Balance Change Change the value of the Armour Save on this unit’s profile to be 5+. Macrocarid Explorator (Page 7) Balance Change Increase the Movement Characteristic of this unit to 12, and the Hull Points Characteristic to 6. Add the Reinforced Sub-type to this unit's entry. Ordo Reductor Minotaur Battery (Page 10) Balance Change Replace the Hull Centreline (Rear) Mounted Twin-Linked Earthshaker cannon with a Centreline (Rear) Mounted Earthshaker Battery - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Errata Replace the option to select a Hull (Front) Mounted Hunter-Killer Missile in this unit's options with a Hull (Rear) Mounted HunterKiller Missile. Ordo Reductor Artillery Tank Battery (Pages 8-9) Balance Change Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 13. Add the Reinforced and Bombard Sub-types to this unit's entry. Replace the option to select a Turret Mounted Gravis Melta Cannon Array in this unit's options with a Turret Mounted Melta Cannon Array. Replace the option to select a Centreline Mounted Medusa Siege Mortar in this unit's options with a Centreline Mounted Medusa Mortar. Add a heading above the profile for the Demolisher Cannon to read as follows: "All weapons listed here are counted as 'Artillery' weapons for those rules which affect such weapons." Replace the Demolisher Cannon, Mars-Colossus Bombard, Whirlwind Missile Launcher Talonis HE Missile, Earthshaker Cannon, and Medusa Mortar’s profiles with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Mechanicum Tarantula Sentry Gun Battery (Page 5) Balance Change Remove the Bulky (4) Special Rule from this unit’s entry. Add the Fearless, Immobile, and Firing Protocols (2) Special Rules to this unit’s entry. Change the wording of the Sentry Protocols Special Rule entirely to read as follows: “A model with this Special Rule must target the closest enemy model as per the following limitations and restrictions: - Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 7 or more must target the nearest enemy model with the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought Sub-types. - Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 6 or below must target the nearest enemy model without the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought Sub-types. - Any model armed with a weapon with the Skyfire Special Rule must target the nearest enemy model with the Flyer Sub-type. If no such target is in range, then the Controlling Player may select a target as normal.” Change the profile of the Sentry Gun to the below: M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv Sentry Gun - - 3 5 5 2 - - 5 3+ 101 102 FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR LIBER IMPERIUM With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. 0-1 Custodian Tribune (Page 20) Balance Change Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Blade for +25 points for an option to purchase a Paragon Blade for Free. Replace the option to purchase Meridian Swords for Free for an option to purchase a Meridian Swords for +35 Points. Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +30 points for an option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +10 points. Custodian Shield Captain (Page 21) Balance Change Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Blade for +25 points for an option to purchase a Paragon Blade for Free. Replace the option to purchase Meridian Swords for Free for an option to purchase a Meridian Swords for +35 Points. Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +30 points for an option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +10 points. Hetaeron Guard Squad (Page 22) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 195 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +60 points. Replace the Meridian Swords in this unit’s Wargear with a Paragon Blade. Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Blade for +25 points for an option to purchase Meridian Swords for +35 points. Custodian Venetari Squad (Page 30) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 190 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +60 points. Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 3. Custodian Guard Squad (Page 25) Balance Change Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 3. Sentinel Guard Squad (Page 26) Balance Change Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 3. Agamatus Jetbike Squadron (Page 28) Balance Change Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 2. Orion Assault Dropship (Page 35) Balance Change Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of this unit to 36. Caladius Grav-Tank (Page 32) Balance Change Replace the Turret Mounted Iliastus Accelerator Cannon in this unit’s Wargear with Turret Mounted Iliastus Accelerator Cannon Arrays. Replace the option to exchange a Turret Mounted Iliastus Accelerator Cannon for an option to exchange Turret Mounted Iliastus Accelerator Cannon Arrays for a Turret Mounted Enhanced Arachnus Blaze Cannon. Knight Abyssal (Page 44) Balance Change Replace the first and second options bullet points to read as follows: “A Knight Abyssal may exchange either her Execution blade and/or Bolt Pistol for one of the following options:” Knight Centura (Page 45) Balance Change Replace the first and second options bullet points to read as follows: “A Knight Centura may exchange either her Execution blade and/or Bolt Pistol for one of the following options:” Questora Cadre (Page 48) Balance Change Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic of 4, and a Ballistic Skill Characteristic of 5. Replace the Vratine Armour in this unit’s Wargear with Artificer Armour. Replace the fourth options bullet point to read as follows: “The entire unit may exchange their Vratine bolters for: Any model in the unit may exchange their Vratine Bolter for one of the following options:” Golden Exemplar (Page 17) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait: “Furthermore, the first Reaction made in each Game Turn by this Warlord and any unit he has joined does not use up a point of the Controlling Player’s Reaction Allotment.” Silent Fury (Page 47) Errata Add the Antigrav Unit Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Add the Firing Protocols (2) Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Weapon & Equipment Upgrades (Various Pages) Balance Change If a model equipped with a Lasrifle is eligible to purchase a bayonet and exchanges their Lasrifle for a Lasgun or Autogun, they may still purchase a bayonet as normal. 103 Raptora Cadre (Page 50) Balance Change Replace the Vratine Armour in this unit’s Wargear with Artificer Armour. Kharon Pattern Acquisitor (Page 56) Balance Change Replace the option to exchange the Hellion Heavy Cannon Array for a Multi-Melta to a Gravis Melta Cannon instead. Eradicator Cadre (Page 53) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 80 points. Change the cost per additional model to 15 points per model. Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have a Ballistic Skill Characteristic of 5. Change the Eradicator profile on this unit’s entry to have a Leadership Characteristic of 8. Change the Eradicator Mistress’ profile on this unit’s entry to have a Leadership Characteristic of 9. Add Voidsheen Cloaks to this unit’s Wargear. Vigilator Cadre (Page 55) Balance Change Replace the Silent Sisterhood (Chamber of Oblivion) Special Rule on this unit’s profile with the Silent Sisterhood (Chamber of Vigilance) Special Rule. Pursuer Cadre (Page 58) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 35 points. Change the upgrade cost for Execution Blades to +5 points. Pursuit Beasts (Page 59) Errata Change the Rage (1) Special Rule to Rage (2). Solar Auxilia Tercios (Page 68) FAQ Wherever a Tercio Organisation chart of any type provides an ‘Either X or Y’ selection you may take those units in any combination, and are not restricted in taking a single type of unit. For example, the Auxilia Armoured Support Tercio is 1-3 either Solar Auxilia Thunderer Siege Tanks Squadrons, Solar Auxilia Destroyer Tank Hunter Squadrons, or Solar Auxilia Trojan Support Vehicles; you may take these in any combination, such as one of each kind of unit. It should be noted that when a Tercio Reacts, any unit which cannot React normally may not participate in the Tercio Reaction. Expurgator Cadre (Page 65) Balance Change Replace the option to purchase an Adrathic Destructor for +20 points for an option to purchase an Adrathic Devastator (with Suspensor Web) for +20 points. Cohort Doctrine: Reborn Cohorts (Page 71) Balance Change Replace the first Effect bullet point to read as follows: “All models with the Infantry Unit Type in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine gain a bonus of +1 to their Leadership Characteristic, to a maximum of Leadership 10, and the Stubborn Special Rule.” Cohort Doctrine: Armoured Fist Pattern Cohorts (Page 71) Balance Change Replace the first Effects bullet point to read as follows: “A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may select Auxilia Armoured Tercios as non-Compulsory Troops choices. An Auxilia Armoured Tercio selected as a Troops choice may only consist of a single unit, which must be a Solar Auxilia Leman Russ Strike Squadron. Auxilia Armoured Tercios selected as Compulsory Troop Choices in a Primary Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine gain the Line Unit Sub-type.” Add the following to the Effects bullet points: “The first time in a game that any models with the Infantry Unit Type Disembark from their own Dedicated Transport, they gain the Relentless Special Rule until the end of that turn.” Replace the first Limitation bullet point to read as follows: “All units composed entirely of models with the Infantry Unit Type must begin the battle Embarked on a model with the Transport Unit Sub-type or in Reserves, unless the unit has the Mechanised Unit Sub-type.” Add the following to the Limitations bullet points: “A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may not include any models with a Movement Characteristic of 0 or ‘-’. An army which includes at least one Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may not select any Fortification choices.” Cohort Doctrine: Penal Pattern Cohorts (Page 72) Balance Change Replace the second Effects bullet point to read as follows: “Any model with the Infantry Unit Type in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may replace a Lasrifle or Volkite Charger with a Lascarbine, Lasgun, Stubcarbine, Autorifle, Laspistol and Close Combat Weapon, or Shotgun for no additional points cost. In addition, one Auxilia in any Solar Auxilia Rifle Section may replace a Lasrifle with a Heavy Stubber for +5 points per model.” Add the following to the Effects bullet points: “Any model in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may replace a Close Combat Weapon with a Chainsword for +1 point per model.” Cohort Doctrine: Feral Pattern Cohorts (Page 72) Balance Change Add the following to the Effects bullet points: “All models with the Infantry Unit Type from a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine gain a bonus of +1 to their Weapon Skill, to a maximum of 5, for the duration of any player turn in which they make a Successful Charge. Any model in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may replace a Bayonet with a Chain Bayonet for +1 point per model. Any model with the Character Unit Sub-type in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may exchange a Close Combat Weapon for a Chain Axe for +2 points per model.” 104 Cohort Doctrine: Siege Pattern Cohorts (Page 73) Balance Change Add the following to the Effects bullet points: “Any unit eligible to purchase a Dedicated Transport may instead elect to purchase a Defence Line without occupying a Fortification Force Organisation slot, but the cost in points must be counted towards the army total as usual. A unit which has selected a Defence Line in this way counts as having purchased a Dedicated Transport.” Replace the first Effects bullet point to read as follows: “A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may select Auxilia Artillery Tercios and Solar Auxilia Armoured Batteries as both Elites and Heavy Support choices. In addition, they may select Solar Auxilia Artillery Battery squads as both Heavy Support and Fortification choices.” Add the following to the Limitations bullet points: “A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may only be selected for an army’s Primary Detachment.” Solar Auxilia Legate Marshal (Page 74) Errata Add the Field Officer Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Balance Change Replace the first and second options bullet points to read as follows: “A Solar Auxilia Legate Marshal may exchange either their Laspistol and/or Close Combat Weapon for one of the following options:” Solar Auxilia Companion Section (Page 78) Balance Change Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Add a Close Combat Weapon to the unit’s profile. Replace the option to purchase a Combi-Weapon for +5 points for an option to purchase a Minor Combi-Weapon for +5 points, or to purchase a Magna Combi-Weapon for +10 points. Solar Auxilia Tactical Command Section (Page 76) Balance Change Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Add a Close Combat Weapon to the unit’s profile. Solar Auxilia Veletaris Command Section (Page 80) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 50 points. Replace the option to purchase Up to 5 Additional Veletarii for an option to purchase Up to 15 Additional Veletarii. Arvus Transport (Page 93) Balance Change Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Stubber to this unit’s Wargear. Solar Auxilia Line Command Section (Page 88) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 40 points. Change the cost per additional model to 6 points per model. Change the Leadership Characteristic on the Auxilia Troop Master’s profile to 8. Replace the option to purchase Up to 5 Additional Auxilia Veterans for an option to purchase Up to 15 Additional Auxilia Veterans. Dracosan Armoured Transport (Page 91) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 135 points. Change the cost to purchase a Demolisher Cannon to +20 points. Change the * notation at the bottom of the unit’s entry to read as follows: “*Selecting this upgrade reduces the Transport Capacity of the Dracosan Armoured Transport to 10 12.” Aurox Transport (Page 92) Balance Change Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of the Aurox to 12. Solar Auxilia Artillery Command Section (Page 100) Balance Change Add the Artillery Spotters Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Solar Auxilia Leman Russ Assault Squadron (Page 98) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 160 points. Change the cost per additional model to 145 points per model. Change the Rear Armour Characteristic of the Leman Russ Demolisher to 11. Solar Auxilia Leman Russ Strike Squadron (Page 97) Balance Change Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis Autocannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted Exterminator Autocannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis Lascannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Solar Auxilia Tarantula Sentry Battery (Page 102) Balance Change Remove the Bulky (4) Special Rule from this unit’s entry. Add the Immobile Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Change the profile of the Sentry Gun to the below: M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv Sentry Gun - - 3 5 5 2 - - 5 3+ Solar Auxilia Rapier Battery (Page 103) Balance Change Change the Armour Save on the Auxilia Gunner statline to 4+. Replace all instances of Gravis Multi-Laser Battery on this unit’s profile and options with Gravis Multi-Laser. 105 Solar Auxilia Malcador Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 104) Balance Change Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Replace the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Gravis Lascannon for an option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon and One Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon to +15 points. Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Front) Mounted Demolisher Cannon to +35 points. Solar Auxilia Malcador Infernus Squadron (Page 108) Balance Change Change the Force Organisation Slot of this unit to Heavy Support. Add the Independent Fire Control Special Rule to this Unit’s profile. Solar Auxilia Valdor Tank Destroyer Squadron (Page 106) Balance Change Add the Independent Fire Control Special Rule to this Unit’s profile. Clade Callidus Assassin (Page 116) Balance Change Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3. Add the following to the end of the Polymorphine wargear’s effects: “In addition, whilst the effects of Polymorphine are active, the model equipped with it does not count as a Scoring or Denial Unit.” Clade Culexus Assassin (Page 115) Balance Change Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 5. Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3. Replace the Animus Speculum’s Animus Blast profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Clade Vindicare Assassin (Page 114) Balance Change Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3. Replace the Exitus Rifle’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Solar Auxilia Stormhammer (Page 109) Balance Change Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Clade Venenum Assassin (Page 122) Balance Change Add the Fleet (2) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Replace the Hookfang’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Clade Adamus Assassin (Page 120) Balance Change Add the Preferred Enemy (Characters) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Clade Eversor Assassin (Page 118) Balance Change Add the No Witnesses Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Clade Vanus Infocyte Assassin (Page 124) Balance Change Add the Panoply of the Assassin wargear to this unit’s profile. Remove the Independent Character Special Rule from the unit’s profile. Change the wargear description on the Autotomic Servo-Limbs to read as follows: “Once per battle, at the start of any turn, the Controlling Player of a model with Autotomic Servo-Limbs may choose to grant that model the Hit & Run Counter-Attack (2) Special Rule until the start of their next turn.” Add the following to the Auspectre wargear’s description: “Note that weapons selected to fire in this manner must still follow the rules and restrictions placed upon them by their mountings, Unit Types, or Unit Sub-types, such as allowed targets for reactions in the case of Knights and Titans only being allowed to react to other Knights and Titans, Super-heavy Vehicles, Lumbering Flyers or any model with 8 or more Wounds.” Assassin Sub-type (Page 128) Balance Change Add the following effect to the Assassin Sub-type: “Models with the Assassin Sub-type gain the Precision Shots (2+), Precision Strikes (2+), and Predator’s Gaze Special Rules.” Anathema Sub-type (Page 129) Balance Change Change the second sentence of the second bullet point to read as follows: “Any Wounds allocated to a model with the Anathema Unit Sub-type caused by a Force Weapon gain no benefit from the Force, Achean Force, or Soul Tear Special Rules, but are otherwise resolved as normal.” Independent Fire Control (Page 133) Balance Change Replace the wording of the Independent Fire Control Special Rule entirely, to read as follows: “A model with this Special Rule may remain stationary, move at Combat Speed, or Cruising Speed, and still fire all of its weapons as though it had the Super-Heavy Sub-type. Note that this does not grant any of the other benefits of the Super-Heavy Sub-type.” Demolition Vehicle (Page 131) Balance Change Replace the first sentence of the Demolition Vehicle Special Rule to read as follows: “When a model with this Special Rule is called upon to make attacks during an Assault, At Initiative step 10, instead of rolling To Hit as normal, a model with this Special Rule instead inflicts one automatic Hit using the profile below on any one enemy model it is in base contact with (chosen by the player that controls the model with this Special Rule).” 106 Solar Auxilia Command Tank (Page 136) Balance Change Replace the second paragraph of the Special Rule, to read as follows: “A Leman Russ Command Tank must be assigned to a Leman Russ Strike Squadron or a Leman Russ Assault Squadron. A model with this Special Rule must be assigned to another unit made up entirely of models with the Vehicle Unit Type purchased as part of the same Tercio. An Armoured Legate may nominate a single Auxilia Armoured Tercio in the same Detachment, and may use their Solar Auxilia Command Tank Special Rule to join squads within that Tercio as if they were purchased as part of it. In addition, a model with this Special Rule may still make Shooting Attacks as normal in a turn in which they use their Cognis-Signum to provide +1 Ballistic Skill to all other models in their unit, even though this would normally be prevented by using this Wargear.” Earthshaker Cannon (Page 141) Balance Change Replace the Earthshaker Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Demolisher Cannon (Page 141) Balance Change Replace the Demolisher Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Battle Cannon (Page 140) Balance Change Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Stormhammer Cannon (Page 140) Balance Change Replace the Stormhammer Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Void Shields (X) (Page 138) FAQ When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded. It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X) Special Rule. Sentry Protocols (Page 136) Balance Change Change the wording of the Sentry Protocols Special Rule entirely to read as follows: “A model with this Special Rule must target the closest enemy model as per the following limitations and restrictions: - Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 7 or more must target the nearest enemy model with the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought Sub-types. - Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 6 or below must target the nearest enemy model without the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought Sub-types. - Any model armed with a weapon with the Skyfire Special Rule must target the nearest enemy model with the Flyer Sub-type. If no such target is in range, then the Controlling Player may select a target as normal.” Medusa Mortar (Page 141) Balance Change Replace the Medusa Mortar’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Grenade Launcher (Secondary) (Page 142) Balance Change Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Vratine Grenade Launcher (Page 142) Balance Change Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Grenade Launcher (Page 146) Balance Change Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Adrasite Spear (Page 147) Balance Change Replace the Shooting profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Adrastus Bolt Caliver (Page 146) Balance Change Replace the Adrastus Bolt Caliver’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Adrathic Devastator (Page 145) Balance Change Replace the Adrathic Devastator’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Adrathic Destructor (Page 145) Balance Change Replace the Adrathic Destructor’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Volkite Macro-Saker (Page 145) Balance Change Replace the Volkite Macro-Saker profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Arachnus Storm Cannon (Page 143) Balance Change Replace the Arachnus Storm Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Inferno Cannon (Page 143) Errata Change the range of the Inferno Cannon to ‘Hellstorm’. Infernus Firepike (Page 143) Balance Change Replace the Infernus Firepike’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. 107 Telemon Cestus (Page 150) Balance Change Replace the Telemon Cestus’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Tarsus Buckler (Page 150) Balance Change See the Tarsus Buckler’s melee profile in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Pyrithite Spear (Page 147) Balance Change Replace the Shooting profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Gravis Power Fist (Page 150) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Charonite Claws (Page 150) Balance Change Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Command Vox (Page 152) Balance Change Add the following effect to the wargear’s description: “While at least one model with a Command Vox is present on the battlefield and not Embarked in a Vehicle or Building, the Controlling Player may re-roll any Scatter rolls made (whether as part of a weapon attack or the deployment of a model or unit), as long as the model with the Command Vox has line of sight to the unit targeted by the attack or the point chosen as the target of the deployment.” Custodes Gyrfalcon Jetbike (Page 153) Balance Change Add the Skilled Rider Special Rule to the rules and abilities provided by this item of wargear. Erinyes Jetbike (Page 154) Balance Change Add the following effect to the wargear’s description: “In addition, any model equipped with an Erinyes Jetbike sets its Movement Characteristic to 18”, and gains the Skilled Rider and Battle-Hardened (1) Special Rules.” Panoply of the Assassin (Page 156) Balance Change Add the following to the wargear’s effects: “A model equipped with the Panoply of the Assassin also gains Frag Grenades, and the Hit & Run and Shrouded (5+) Special Rules.” Praesidium Shield (Page 156) Balance Change Replace the wording of the Praesidium Shield Wargear to read as follows: “A Praesidium shield confers a 5+ Invulnerable Save – this does not stack with existing Invulnerable Saves and if a model has more than one such save, the Controlling Player must select one to use against any Wounds inflicted on that model. A model with a Praesidium Shield adds +1 to its Invulnerable Save (to a maximum of 3+) or an Invulnerable Save of 6+ if they do not already possess one. In addition, a model with a Praesidium Shield cannot claim bonus attacks for having more than one melee weapon, or make attacks during the Assault phase using a weapon with the Two-Handed Special Rule.” Krak Grenades (Page 155) Balance Change Replace the wargear’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. 108 FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR LEGACIES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS: SOLAR AUXILIA With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Solar Auxilia Carnodon Strike Squadron (Page 4) Balance Change Replace the Turret Mounted Twin-Linked Multi-Laser in this unit's profile with a Turret Mounted Gravis Multi-Laser. Replace the option to select a Turret Mounted Twin-Linked Autocannon in this unit's options with a Turret Mounted Gravis Autocannon. Replace the option to select a Turret Mounted Twin-Linked Lascannon in this unit's options with a Turret Mounted Gravis Lascannon. Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted Multi-lasers to Free. Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted Heavy Bolters to Free. Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted Autocannons to +5 points. Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted Lascannons to +15 points. Solar Auxilia Thunderer Siege Tank Squadron (Page 6) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 150 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +135 points. Lidless Stare (Psychic Weapon) (Page 3) Balance Change Replace the Lidless Stare (Psychic Weapon)’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Davinite Lodge Priest (Page 2) Balance Change Add the Psychic Discipline: Anaethemata to those known by this unit. Solar Auxilia Destroyer Tank Hunter Squadron (Page 7) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 150 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +135 points. Replace the Proteus Laser Destroyer’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Solar Auxilia Trojan Support Vehicle (Page 8) Balance Change Change the value of the Field Repair (X) Special Rule on this unit’s profile to 3+. Solar Auxilia Minotaur Battery (Page 9) Balance Change Replace the Hull Centreline (Rear) Mounted Twin-Linked Earthshaker cannon with a Centreline (Rear) Mounted Earthshaker Battery - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Errata Replace the option to select a Hull (Front) Mounted Hunter-Killer Missile in this unit's options with a Hull (Rear) Mounted HunterKiller Missile. Solar Auxilia Macharius Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 10) Balance Change Move this unit from a Lord of War selection to a Heavy Support selection. Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 350 Points, and the cost to add an additional model to 335 Points. Change the number of additional models that can be included in the unit to 2. Replace the Macharius Battlecannon, Macharius Vanquisher Battlecannon, and Macharius Rotary Bolt Cannon’s profiles with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Solar Auxilia Stormblade (Page 11) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points. Replace the Plasma Blastgun’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Bolter to this unit’s profile. Solar Auxilia Banehammer (Page 13) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points. Increase the Transport Capacity to 22 models. Add the Tank Desant (10) Special Rule to this unit’s entry. Replace the Tremor Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Solar Auxilia Baneblade (Page 12) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 450 Points. Replace the Baneblade Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. 109 Solar Auxilia Stormlord (Page 14) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 450 Points. Increase the Transport Capacity to 32 models. Add the Tank Desant (10) and Assault Vehicle Special Rules to this unit’s entry. Add the following to the unit’s profile: “A Solar Auxilia Stormlord has one Access Point at the rear of the hull.” Replace the Vulcan Mega-Bolter’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Solar Auxilia Stormsword (Page 16) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points. Replace the Hellhammer Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Solar Auxilia Shadowsword (Page 15) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 525 Points. Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14. Solar Auxilia Praetor Armoured Assault Launcher (Page 17) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 450 Points. Replace the Praetor Launcher on this unit’s profile with a Centreline Mounted Praetor Launcher - see profile in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Solar Auxilia Crassus Armoured Assault Transport (Page 18) Balance Change Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of the Crassus Assault Transport to 48. Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Solar Auxilia Artillery Battery (Page 19) Balance Change Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 100 Points. Add the Immobile and Bulky (5) Special Rules to this unit’s entry - these are applied only to the Artillery Platforms. Change the Armour Save on the Auxilia Gunner Statline to 4+. Change the profile of the Artillery Platform to the below: M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv Artillery Platform - - 4 7 7 4 - - 5 3+ 110 FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR LEGACIES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS:THE IMPERIALISMILITIA With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Mechanised Unit Sub-type (Page 5, 29) Balance Change Change the fifth effect of the Mechanised Sub-type to read as follows: “A model with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type is affected by the Haywire, Detonation and Battlesmith (X) Special Rules as if it had the Dreadnought Unit Type. Any attacks made against a unit with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type are resolved as if the model had the Dreadnought Unit Type. Note that this affects any Wargear, Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.” Clanfolk Levy (Page 9) Balance Change Change the effects of the Clanfolk Levy Provenance to read as follows: “A Detachment with this Provenance may choose to fill Compulsory Troops choices only with Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads with all models in Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads selected as Compulsory Troops choices. Units selected in this manner gain the Line Sub-type. In addition, all models in Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads gain a bonus of +1 to their Leadership Characteristic (this does not allow Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads to be selected as non Compulsory Troops choices). In addition, a Detachment with this Provenance may include four additional Fast Attack choices – but these additional choices may only be used to select Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads.” Legacy of the Great Crusade (Page 9) Balance Change Change the effects of the Legacy of the Great Crusade Provenance to read as follows: “All Imperialis Militia Grenadier Squad, Imperialis Militia Command Cadres, and units that contain a Discipline Master or Mounted Discipline Master in a Detachment with this Provenance increase their Ballistic Skill by +1 (to a maximum of 4). A Force Commander in a Detachment with this Provenance increases its Initiative to 5.” Cyber-Augmetics (Page 10) Balance Change Change the effects of the Cyber-Augmetics Provenance to read as follows: “All eligible units and models gain the Feel No Pain (6+) and Slow and Purposeful Special Rule, and any eligible unit may be given the Slow and Purposeful Special Rule at no additional points cost. In addition, any unit which includes a Militia Medicae improves the Feel No Pain (6+) Special Rule provided by their Auto-Medicus to a (5+). This Provenance may not be chosen in conjunction with the Genecrafted Provenance and any Detachment with this Provenance is treated as Sworn Brothers by any Detachment with the Mechanicum Faction in the same army.” Kinfolk Helots (Page 11) Balance Change Change the effects of the Kinfolk Helots Provenance to read as follows: “All eligible units and models receive an increase of +1 to their Toughness Characteristic but also lower their Initiative and Movement Characteristics by -1 (to a minimum of 1, models with a Movement of 0 or - are not affected and remain Movement 0 or -) change their Toughness Characteristic to be one higher than its starting value (a Toughness characteristic of 3 being changed to 4 on their statline, for example), but also change their Initiative and Movement Characteristics to be one lower than its starting value (in the same way as above). All eligible models in a Detachment with this Provenance and the Character Unit Sub-type gain the Battlesmith (6+) Special Rule, or if they also have the Independent Character Special Rule gain the Battlesmith (5+) Special Rule instead. This Provenance may not be chosen in conjunction with the Ogryn Conscripts Provenance.” The Third-Line Unit Sub-type (Page 5) Errata Change the first line of the Sub-type to read as follows: “The following rules apply to all models with the Third-Line Sub-type:” Merchant Princeling (Page 6) Errata Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait’s effects: “If the Warlord has a Retinue unit of any kind, this unit is instead automatically designated as the Warlord’s Lifeguard unit. A Warlord with this Trait also gains the Heavy Unit Sub-Type.” Imperial Militia Force Commander (Page 8) Balance Change Change the italicised text after the fifth Options bullet point to read as follows: “*A Mounted Force Commander uses the Mounted Force Commander profile instead of the Force Commander profile, gains the Militia Cavalry Mount Wargear (see page 37), gains the Relentless, Scout, and Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rules and replaces the Infantry Unit Type with the Cavalry Unit Type, as well as gaining the Skirmish and Light Sub-types, but otherwise keeping all other Sub-types it previously had.” Weapon & Equipment Upgrades (Various Pages) Balance Change If a model equipped with a Lasgun is eligible to purchase a bayonet and exchanges their Lasgun for a Lasrifle or Autogun, they may still purchase a bayonet as normal. 111 Abhuman Muster (Page 11) Balance Change Change the effects of the Abhuman Muster Provenance to read as follows: “All eligible units and models receive an increase of +1 to their Strength Characteristic but also lower their Ballistic Skill by -1 (to a minimum of 1) change their Strength and Movement Characteristic to be one higher than its starting value (a Strength characteristic of 3 being changed to 4 on their statline, for example), but also change their Ballistic Skill Characteristic to be one lower than its starting value (in the same way as above) and, if they do not already possess any variant of the Bulky (X) Special Rule, gain the Bulky (2) Special Rule. All eligible models in a Detachment with this Provenance and the Character Unit Sub-type gain the Hammer of Wrath (1) special rule, or if they also have the Independent Character special rule or the Monstrous Unit Sub-type gain the Hammer of Wrath (2) special rule instead. gain the Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rule. If a model also has the Character Unit Sub-type or the Monstrous Unit Sub-type, they gain the Hammer of Wrath (2) Special Rule instead, or +1 to an existing Hammer of Wrath (X) Special Rule if they already have the Hammer of Wrath (2) Special Rule. This Provenance may not be chosen in conjunction with the Ogryn Conscripts Provenance.” Imperialis Militia Command Cadre (Page 16) Balance Change Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +5 points. Change the ninth bullet point in the options list to read as follows: “For every five models in the unit, one Militia Bodyguard in the squad may exchange their Lasgun for one of the following:” Change the cost of exchanging a Lasgun for a Plasma Gun to +10 points. Imperialis Militia Grenadier Squad (Page 19) Balance Change Change the eighth bullet point in the options list to read as follows: “For every ten models in the unit, up to two Grenadiers in the squad may exchange their Lasgun for one of the following:” Expendable (Page 18) FAQ A Warlord which joins a unit containing any models with the Expendable Special Rule still gives Victory Points for Slay the Warlord, First Strike, or any other Primary or Secondary Mission Objectives as normal when slain. Imperialis Militia Fire Support Squad (Page 20) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 35 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +10 points. Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Add the Crew-Served Weapon Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Change the option to purchase a Missile Launcher with Frag & Krak Missiles to read as follows: “Missile Launcher (with Frag, Krak, and Flak Missiles)” Emplaced (Page 20, 24) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Special Rule’s effects: “If taken as part of a Mortalis Assault Force Organisation Chart, a unit that includes any models with this Special Rule may only make the Suppress Reaction.” Imperialis Militia Reconnaissance Squad (Page 21) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 35 points. Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Change the third bullet point in the options list to read as follows: “Any model in the unit may exchange their Shotguns, Lascarbines, or Stubcarbines for one of the following:” Imperialis Militia Ogryn Brute Squad (Page 23) Balance Change Change the option to purchase a Boarding Shield to read as follows: “Boarding Shield (and the Heavy Sub-type)” Imperialis Militia Field Gun Battery (Page 24) Balance Change Change the option to exchange a Thunderblast Cannon for a Heavy Lascannon to +10 points. Change the option to exchange a Thunderblast Cannon for a Kalliope Mortar to +10 points. Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Imperialis Militia Arvus Transport (Page 25) Balance Change Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Stubber and Searchlights to this unit’s Wargear. Among the Ranks (Page 13) Balance Change Change the third sentence of this Special Rule to read as follows: “Discipline Masters may only be assigned to units composed entirely of models with the Infantry Unit Type, and either the Militia or Artillery Unit Sub-types, unless upgraded to a Mounted Discipline Master, in which case that model must be assigned to a Unit with the Cavalry Unit Type and the Militia Unit Sub-type.” Imperialis Militia Discipline Master Cadre (Page 13) Balance Change Change the italicised text after the seventh Options bullet point to read as follows: “*A Mounted Discipline Master uses the Mounted Discipline Master profile instead of the Discipline Master profile, gains the Militia Cavalry Mount Wargear (see page 37), gains the Relentless, Scout, and Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rules and replaces the Infantry Unit Type with the Cavalry Unit Type, as well as gaining the Skirmish and Light Subtypes, but otherwise keeping all other Sub-types it previously had. A Discipline Master upgraded to a Mounted Discipline Master must be assigned to either an Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squad, Imperialis Militia Wolf Rapid Response Section, or Imperialis Militia Mounted Command Cadre – this ignores the usual restrictions on assigning models via the Among the Flock Special Rule to units based on Unit Type.” Strength in Numbers (Pages 17 & 18) Balance Change Change the last paragraph to read as follows: “When assigning additional models to units using Among the Ranks and Militia Medicae Support Special Rules any Special Rules, each unit selected using the Strength in Numbers Special Rule is considered separate and may have models assigned to it as per the normal rules as the Controlling Player chooses.” 112 Demolisher Cannon (Page 38) Balance Change Replace the Demolisher Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Militia Standard (Page 37) Balance Change Add the following to the end of the Wargear’s effects: “A unit that includes at least one model with a Militia Standard gains the Line Sub-type for as long as that model is part of the unit.” Battle Cannon (Page 38) Balance Change Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Baneblade Cannon (Page 38) Balance Change Replace the Baneblade Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Thunderblast Cannon (Page 38) Balance Change Replace the Thunderblast Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Imperialis Militia Gorgon Heavy Transporter (Page 35) Balance Change Add the Assault Vehicle Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Imperialis Militia Heavy Ordnance Battery (Page 34) Balance Change Change the Unit Type of the Gun Carriage on this unit’s profile to Infantry (Static Artillery*, Heavy). Add the Immobile and Bulky (5) Special Rules to this unit’s entry - these are applied only to the Gun Carriage. Change the profile of the Gun Carriage to the below: *See Page 19, Legacies of the Age of Darkness: Solar Auxilia. Imperialis Militia Baneblade Super-Heavy Battle Tank (Page 36) Balance Change Change the Hull Points Characteristic of this unit to 12. Imperialis Militia Leman Russ (Page 33) Balance Change Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis Autocannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted Exterminator Autocannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis Lascannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Change the option to exchange a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Bolter for a Hull (Front) Mounted Lascannon to +10 points. Imperialis Militia Malcador Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 32) Balance Change Add the Independent Fire Control Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Replace the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Gravis Lascannon for an option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section. Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon and One Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon to +15 points. Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Front) Mounted Demolisher Cannon to +35 points. M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv Gun Carriage - - 3 7 7 4 - - 5 3+ Imperialis Militia Sentinel Squadron (Page 29) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 40 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +40 points. Change the option to purchase a Missile Launcher with Frag & Krak Missiles to read as follows: “Missile Launcher (with Frag, Krak, and Flak Missiles)” Imperialis Militia Thunderbolt Fighter (Page 30) Balance Change Add the Divisio Aeronautica Air Superiority Special Rule to this unit’s profile. War Beasts (Page 28) Errata Change the Rage (1) Special Rule to Rage (2). Imperialis Militia Beastmasters (Page 28) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 30 points. Add the Fleet (1) Special Rule (Militia Handlers only) to this unit’s profile. Add the Light Sub-type (Militia Handlers only) to this unit’s profile. Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squad (Page 27) Balance Change Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have a Wounds Characteristic of 2. Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Change the fifth bullet point in the options list to read as follows: “For every five models in the unit, one Militia Outrider in the unit may take one of the following:” Change the cost of selecting a Militia Lance to +2 points. Errata Change the Unit Type of the Militia Outrider Sergeant to: Cavalry (Light, Militia, Skirmish, Character) 113 Volkite Macro-Saker (Page 40) Balance Change Replace the Volkite Macro-Saker’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Grenade Launcher (Page 40) Balance Change Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Ripper Gun (Page 41) Balance Change See the Ripper Gun’s melee profile in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Melta Lance (Page 41) Balance Change See the Melta Lance’s melee profile in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Medusa Mortar (Page 38) Balance Change Replace the Medusa Mortar’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Earthshaker Cannon (Page 38) Balance Change Replace the Earthshaker Cannon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Ungainly (Page 41) Balance Change Replace the wording of this Special Rule to read as follows: “A model may only attack with this weapon on a turn in which it makes a successful Charge Charge (even if that Charge is Disordered), but does not gain a bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules that would normally grant additional Attacks.” 114 Arms of the Omnissiah (Page 6) Balance Change Add the following to this Provenance of War’s wording: “Any Detachment with this Provenance is treated as Sworn Brothers by any Detachment with the Mechanicum Faction in the same army.” Change the wording of the “Blessed Arms” option to read as follows: “Option – Blessed Arms: Eligible models in Imperialis Militia Grenadier Squads and Imperialis Militia Command Cadres may upgrade Lasguns to Las-locks at no additional points cost, and may upgrade Sniper Rifles to Arc Rifles at a cost of +45 +25 points per unit, regardless of the number of models or types of weapons upgraded in a given unit.” Augmented Levy (Page 6) Balance Change Add the following to this Provenance of War’s wording: “Any Detachment with this Provenance is treated as Sworn Brothers by any Detachment with the Mechanicum Faction in the same army.” FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS: THE LIBERATION OFCONSTANIX II With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. 115 116 FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Editor’s Note: If you’re looking for patches for units not mentioned here that were reprinted in another publication, such as the Exemplary Battles: Volume One book, please go to that section of the Liber Panoptica. Imperial Fists Huscarl Squad (Page 2) Balance Change Add the following Dedicated Transport text to this unit, to read as follows: “An Imperial Fists Huscarl Squad numbering no more than five models may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport. An Imperial Fists Huscarl Squad of any size may select a Legion Spartan Land Raider as a Dedicated Transport. As a Dedicated Transport, this does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Dark Angels Inner Circle Knights Cenobium - Order of the Broken Claws (Page 7) Balance Change Set the Unit Type for the Order Cenobite profile to Infantry (Heavy), and the Unit Type for the Order Preceptor profile to Infantry (Character, Heavy). Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit. Change the upgrade cost for a Thunder Hammer to +5 points per model. For the purposes of the Deathwing Hexagrammaton Unit Subtype, an Advex-Mors Greatsword gains the +1 To Hit bonus provided by the Sub-type. Death Guard Mortus Poisoner Squad (Page 8) Balance Change Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profiles to 2. Add the Battle-Hardened (1) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Change the cost to purchase a Heavy Alchem Flamer to +5 points. Change the cost to purchase a Power Scythe to +10 points. Emperor’s Children Sun Killer Squad (Page 13) Balance Change Change the option to upgrade to a Multi-Melta to include a Suspensor Web. White Scars Dark Sons of Death (Page 11) Balance Change Set the Attacks Characteristic for the Dark Son profile to 2, and the Attacks Characteristic for the Death’s Champion profile to 3. Raven Guard Deliverers Squad (Page 15) Balance Change Change the first paragraph of the Corax’s Shame Special Rule to read as follows: “If selected as part of an army with the Loyalist Allegiance, models with this Special Rule gain the Battle-hardened (1) and Hatred (Horus Lupercal) Special Rules. If selected as part of an army with the Traitor Allegiance, models with this Special Rule gain the Battle-hardened (1) and Hatred (Corvus Corax) Special Rules.” 117 FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS:VOLUME ONE With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Legiones Hereticus (X) (Page 106) FAQ In the same manner as a Detachment composed of models with the appropriate version of the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule is classed as having that Faction for the purposes of the Allies Matrix, Allied or Optional Detachments, and so on, a Detachment composed of models with the appropriate version of the Legiones Hereticus (X) Special Rule should be treated as though it had the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule for all such interactions. The Daemon Primarch Unit Type (Page 102) Errata Add the following bullet points to the list of effects provided by this Unit Type: “A model with this Unit Type may join units with the Infantry Unit Type as if it had the Primarch Unit Type, or units with the Daemon Unit Type as if it had the Daemon Unit Type. Balance Change Replace the 4th bullet point to read as follows: “Any Hits inflicted by a Daemon Primarch, as part of either Shooting Attacks or in close combat, are allocated by the Daemon Primarch’s controlling player and not the Controlling Player of the target unit. These Hits should form a separate Wound Pool. Daemon Primarchs have the Precision Strikes (2+) and Precision Shots (2+) Special Rules, and may choose to use these rules when attacking even when ordinarily they would be prevented from doing so, including when making Snap Shots.” Add the following bullet points to the list of effects provided by this Unit Type: Any unit entirely composed of models with the Daemon Primarch Unit Type may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan, Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.” Salamanders Sanctifier Squad (Page 92) Balance Change Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Salamanders Sanctifier Squad may take a Legion Rhino Transport, Legion Termite Assault Drill, or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Change the eighth options bullet point to read as follows: “For every five models in the unit, one Sanctifier Any model in the unit may exchange their Bolter for the following option: - Obsidite Rotor Cannon +10 points” Fulgrim Transfigured (Page 104) Balance Change Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 9. Add the following to this model’s profile: Fulgrim Transfigured is counted as having a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.” The Stage is Set (Page 109) Balance Change For the purposes of Movement, Shooting Attacks, and Charges, a model deployed via this Special Rule should be treated as though they were deployed via a Deep Strike Assault. World Eaters Red Hand Destroyer Assault Squad (Page 44) Balance Change Change the cost of the below options to read as follows: - Meteor Hammer +10 points per model - Excoriator Chainaxe +10 points per model - Twin Falax Blades +5 points per model - Barb-Hook Lash +5 points per model Iron Warriors Dominator Cohort (Page 26) Balance Change Change the base unit cost of the unit to 250 points. Change the cost per additional model to 45 points per model. Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows: “A Dominator Cohort may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5 models or a unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.” Ultramarines Nemesis Destroyer Squad (Page 66) Balance Change Replace the Mortifier Bolter’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Night Lords Atramentar Squad (Page 12) Balance Change Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic of 5. Change the Atramentar’s Leadership Characteristic to be 8, and change the Atramentar Trucidor’s Leadership Characteristic to be 9. Add the Stubborn Special Rule to this unit’s Profile. 118 Grim Purpose (Page 8) Balance Change Replace the wording of this Special Rule to read as follows: “A unit that includes any models with this Special Rule may not be joined by any model that does not also have this Special Rule (this includes Legion Techmarines and Legion Apothecaries, which may not be assigned to a unit with this Special Rule unless they also have this Special Rule), unless that model has the Independent Character Special Rule and one of the following Psychic Disciplines: Harbinger of Chaos, Diabolism, or Anathemata. A Word Bearers Procurator Squad may be selected as a Retinue Squad in a Detachment that includes at least one model with both the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) Special Rules and one of the following Psychic Disciplines: Harbinger of Chaos, Diabolism, or Anathemata, instead of as an Elites choice. A unit selected as a ‘Retinue Squad’ must have one model with both the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) Special Rules and one of the following Psychic Disciplines: Harbinger of Chaos, Diabolism, or Anathemata from the same Detachment selected by the controlling player as the Word Bearers Procurator Squad’s Leader for the purposes of this Special Rule. A Word Bearers Procurator Squad selected as a Retinue Squad does not use up a Force Organisation slot and is considered part of the same unit as the model selected as its Leader. A Word Bearers Procurator Squad selected as a Retinue Squad must be deployed with the model selected as its Leader deployed as part of the unit and the Leader may not voluntarily leave the Retinue Squad during play.” FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS: THE SCOURING OF GILDEN’S STAR With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Word Bearers Procurators (Page 8) Balance Change Change the option to exchange a Chainsword for a Heavy Chainsword to +2 points. 119 Jorlund Hunter Pack (Page 6) Balance Change Add the Skirmish Sub-type and Hit & Run Special Rule to this unit’s profile. FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS: THEBATTLE OFTRISOLIAN:VENGEFUL SPIRIT With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. 120 Gargantuan (Page 2) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the Unit Type: “Any unit entirely composed of models with the Gargantuan Unit Type may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan, Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.” FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR LEGACIES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS:DAEMONS OF THERUINSTORM With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. Ruinstorm Daemon Sovereign (Page 6) Balance Change Add the Lords of the Ruinstorm Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Change the cost of exchanging Sovereign Armaments for a Sovereign Greatblade to +40 points. Change the cost of selecting Immaterial Wings to +50 points. Ætheric Dominion (Formless Distortion) (Page 4) Balance Change Change the D3 result of 2 to read as follows: “2 - Lashing Pseudopods: Reach (1), Rending (6+)” Ruinstorm Arch-Daemon (Page 17) Balance Change Change the cost of selecting Immaterial Wings to +50 points. Add the Warp Resplendent Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Cor’Bax Utterblight Unbound (Page 20) Balance Change Add the Bulky (6) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Behemoth Blade (Page 24) Balance Change Replace the Behemoth Blade’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section. Ruinstorm Daemon Hierarch (Page 7) Balance Change Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic of 6. Add the Independent Character Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Ruinstorm Daemon Harbinger (Page 8) Balance Change Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have an Armour Save of 3+. Ruinstorm Daemon Beasts (Page 10) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 70 points. Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +20 points. Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Attacks Characteristic of 4. Add the Furious Charge (1) and Scout Special Rules to this unit’s profile. Ruinstorm Lesser Daemons (Page 11) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 100 points. Ruinstorm Daemon Swarms (Page 12) Balance Change Remove the Swarm Special Rule from this unit’s profile, and add the Daemonic Hordes Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Ruinstorm Daemon Cavalry (Page 13) Balance Change Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Leadership Characteristic of 7. Add the Hit & Run, Hammer of Wrath (1), and Bulky (2) Special Rules to this unit’s profile. Ruinstorm Daemon Harriers (Page 14) Balance Change Change the Points Cost of this unit to 100 points. Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Attacks Characteristic of 2. Add the Deep Strike Special Rule to this unit’s profile. Greater Ruinstorm Daemon Beast (Page 15) Balance Change Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Leadership Characteristic of 8. Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Strength and Toughness Characteristic of 6. Add the Bulky (5) and Feeding Frenzy Special Rules to this unit’s profile. Ruinstorm Daemon Behemoth (Page 16) Balance Change Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic of 5. Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Leadership Characteristic of 8. 121 ADDITIONAL WARGEAR OPTIONS FOR EXISTINGDAEMONS OF THERUINSTORM UNITS In addition to the normal options presented in the rules for various units, the additional wargear presented below may be selected for units at the costs shown. These are intended to be used alongside various publications, including all of Games Workshop’s official publications and releases. Note that these upgrades will be moved into a future release from the Panoptica Team. RUINSTORM DAEMON HIERARCH Options: ? A Hierarch may exchange their Infernal Armaments for the following option: - Sovereign Armaments........................................................................................................................................................................................................ +30 points RUINSTORM DAEMON HARBINGER Options: ? A Harbinger may exchange their Harbinger Blade for the following option: - Infernal Armaments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Free RUINSTORM DAEMON BEHEMOTH Options: ? A Ruinstorm Behemoth may select the following option: - The Unmaking ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... +25 points 122 Gargantuan (Page 23) Balance Change Add the following bullet point to the Unit Type: “Any unit entirely composed of models with the Gargantuan Unit Type may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan, Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.” Bound Cor’Bax Utterblight (Page 21) Balance Change Add the Bulky (6) Special Rule to this unit’s profile. FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS: THEBURNING OF OHMN-MAT With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing. 123 ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS: Additional Special Rules 126 ADDITIONAL SPECIALRULES The FAQ, Errata, and Balance Changes made in this document add a number of additional Special Rules to certain units - these can be found below. These function in addition to the Special Rules found in the existing official Games Workshop publications, and operate under the broader Rules and Conventions laid out in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook. Afterburner Colossal secondary combustors attached to the main engines of a flyer allowed this vehicle a surprising burst of speed. Once per game at the start of the Movement Phase, a model with this Special Rule may elect to fire its Afterburner. If it does so, the model may make an additional move after its normal move, up to its normal movement Characteristic. Note that for this additional move, the Movement value cannot be modified in any way. Caestus Prow The armoured fore of this craft was a masterwork of layered armour, shield generators, and reinforced bulkheads. A model with this Special Rule may declare a Ramming attack in the same manner as a Tank, regardless of its actual unit type. This attack must be declared at the start of the Movement Phase, after you have decided whether or not the will fire its Afterburner (if it has the Afterburner Special Rule). When conducting a Ramming attack, the hit is automatically resolved at Strength 10, AP 3, and adds +1 to any rolls on the Vehicle Damage table it inflicts. If the model fired its Afterburner this turn, add +2 instead. In addition, the model has an Invulnerable Save of 5+ against any attacks against its Front Armour, including any damage it suffers as a result of it Ramming or being Rammed itself. A model with this Special Rule is immune to the effects of the Armourbane (Melta) Special Rule – meaning that no extra D6 for armour penetration can be rolled against the model as a result of this Special Rule. Auto-Servo Tracking Independent firing control subsystems allowed this weapon to track and fire without requiring their operator to direct them. A weapon with this Special Rule can fire at a different target to the other weapons the model is armed with. Augmetics (X) Some warriors in the Age of Darkness had extensive amounts of augmetics within, enough even to survive the most grievous of wounds. When a model with this Special Rule suffers an unsaved Wound, it can make a special Augmetics roll to avoid being wounded (this is not a Saving Throw and so can be used against attacks that state that ‘no Saves of any kind are allowed’). Roll a D6 each time an unsaved Wound is suffered. On a result that is equal to or greater than the value in brackets, the unsaved Wound is discounted – treat it as having been Saved. On any other result, the Wound is taken as normal. For example, a unit with the Augmetics (6+) Special Rule would need to score a 6 in order to discount a Wound inflicted upon it. If on any unit this rule is presented simply as Augmetics, without a value in brackets, then count it as Augmetics (6+). This is a Damage Mitigation roll – any model may make only a single Damage Mitigation roll of any type for any given Wound (see page 174). Artillery Spotters These spotters worked in tandem with their charges, calling targets for those under their command to assail. A unit with this Special Rule may grant the benefits of a Cognis Signum it has purchased to any unit with at least one model within 6” of a model from this unit, instead of using the benefit itself - though the unit affected must be from the same Tercio as it to grant it the benefits of the Cognis Signum in this way. Brittle The sharpened edge on this weapon was impressively good at slicing through almost any substance - unless the blade bit at a bad angle. If a model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule hits with all attacks made with this weapon in a single phase, the blade’s edge is blunted – at the end of the phase, the weapon’s AP value drops to AP 4 and it loses any variant of the Rending (X) Special Rule it possesses for the rest of the battle. Broken Soul For those who had already given themselves to the darkness, it was only a small step to invite the evil within themselves… A model with this Special Rule may be given the Corrupted Sub-type at no additional cost in points - this must be decided at the start of the battle before any models are deployed and may not be changed during the battle. Born of Steel This combatant had become more metal than flesh, and could walk among automata as one of their own. A model with this Special Rule may be given the Patris Cybernetica Special Rule at no additional cost in points - this must be decided at the start of the battle before any models are deployed and may not be changed during the battle. Armoured Superstructure Approaching in bulk that of a Super-Heavy vehicle, some armoured behemoths could withstand blows that would utterly destroy a lesser target. Whenever a roll is made on the Vehicle Damage Table against a model with this Special Rule, subtract -1 from the result rolled. Consul (X) Despite their lofty station that had otherwise outstripped the rank of Consul, Astartes Centurions would often retain all the privileges of their former rank. A model with this Special Rule is counted as having the named Legiones Consularis Upgrade as indicated in brackets in the Special Rule for all intents and purposes, including Rites of War, Special Rules, and wargear limitations which either require there to be one to be present in a detachment, or prevent it. Note that this does not confer any of the benefits normally gained from that upgrade to the model themselves from any such sources. 127 Countermeasures Whether achieved via immense speed, thermic flares, or other more esoteric means, this craft could confound incoming fire. A model with this Special Rule has a 5+ Invulnerable Save against any Shooting Attacks which have the Skyfire Special Rule made against it. A model with this Special Rule which does not make a Zoom move in the Controlling Player’s Movement Phase cannot claim the benefit of this Special Rule during the rest of the Controlling Player’s turn, as well as the Opposing Player’s turn. Close-Quarters Boarding Protocol The mortal factions of the Imperialis Militia were often found fighting in the claustrophobic confines of a Zone Mortalis. A unit with this Special Rule may be chosen as part of a detachment using the Zone Mortalis Engagement Force Organisation Chart despite having more than 15 models. However, this unit cannot be expanded above its starting size. Felling Blow Trading raw speed for killing power, this weapon struck with a fury unmatched by lesser weapons. When a model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule makes a Melee attack, it may choose to halve the number of attacks it makes. If it does so, those attacks gain the Murderous Strike (5+) Special Rule. Feeding Frenzy Flailing tendrils snatched up the dead and dying to be devoured by one of the creature’s many fanged maws. The feast of flesh was added to its mass – regenerating damage inflicted upon it. At the end of an Initiative Step in which an enemy model is slain in close combat as a result of attacks made by a model with this Special Rule, the Controlling Player may roll a D6 for each model slain. On a result of a 6 a model with this Special Rule in the attacking unit immediately regains 1 Wound, up to its starting Wounds Characteristic. Emperor’s Chosen A long and storied path awaited one marked by the Emperor himself - and this Champion had a fate not yet met... A model with this Special Rule that suffers an unsaved wound with the Instant Death Special Rule is not immediately removed as a casualty, but instead loses D3 wounds instead of one for each unsaved wound with the Instant Death Special Rule inflicted on it. Dimensional Edge (X) The blade of this weapon was not truly at home in our reality - and the exotic matter that constitutes its form would, when caught in the right phase, pass straight through any matter it touched. Weapons with this Special Rule can only ever cause a Wound on the number indicated in brackets. No Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls of any kind may be taken against Wounds caused by this weapon. Daemonic Hordes The unending multitudes of these biting, gnawing, scratching creatures were often underestimated; often only until they kept coming despite losing untold dozens of their numbers. If a model with the Daemonic Hordes Special Rule suffers an unsaved Wound from a Blast (any size) or Template weapon, each unsaved Wound is multiplied to two unsaved Wounds. In addition, a model with this Special Rule cannot suffer Instant Death as a result of any Attack which has a Strength value of double its Toughness Characteristic - Though attacks which would otherwise inflict Instant Death in this way may not benefit from the Feel No Pain (X) or Corrupted Resilience Special Rule. Attacks which have the Instant Death Special Rule in their profile are unaffected by this Special Rule and function normally. Gyrocoil Charge Internal moving weights inside this weapon allowed it to make incredibly heavy blows - at the cost of speed. Attacks made with a weapon with this Special Rule incur a -2 Initiative Penalty. Exposed Compartment Whilst the open crew bays of some vehicles made them easier to operate for many tasks, they also made easy prey for weapons designed to take advantage of such weaknesses. Any rolls on the Vehicle Damage Table that target a model with this Special Rule add +1 to the result. Hardwired Defences These automated weapons would follow their directives to protect their position until they were destroyed. A Fortification with this Special Rule may not be claimed by a player which did not originally select them as part of their army. Crew-Served Weapon The weight and bulk of some heavy weapons required multiple troops to partially deconstruct and carry them when repositioning or boarding most transports. A model with this Special Rule may Embark on models with the Transport Unit Sub-Type and Infantry Transport Special Rule, contrary to the restriction on models with the Bulky (X) Special Rule rule, but still must take into account their size due to the Bulky (X) Special Rule. Ejector Blowout The unstable nature of some weapons means runaway reactions and failures in safety mechanisms can be explosively fatal. A weapon with this Special Rule counts all Gets Hot results as AP2. Field Officer The officers of the Solar Auxilia were never far from the frontlines, ready and able to lead their troops into battle directly if necessary. When this model with this Special Rule joins a unit with the CloseOrder Unit Sub-Type, it automatically gains the Close-Order Unit Sub-Type for as long as it remains part of that unit. 128 Sensor Flare Against some targets, the harsh coruscating light given off rendered even the most advanced sensors utterly useless. If a model is Hit by a weapon with this Special Rule, it must take an immediate Blind Test. Riposte (X) Fluid in the air in a way the eye struggles to track, this weapon seems to be in many places at once - and always right where it is needed to block a blade... Models making an attack against a model wielding a weapon with this Special Rule must subtract X from their Weapon Skill. Psychic Mastery (X) A raw bulwark of ethereal power, this psyker pushed past the limits that would spell doom for others - despite the great risks... A model with this Special Rule may cast an amount of Psychic Powers per phase, up to the number indicated in brackets, in spite of the normal limitations on doing so. Note that a Psychic Power counted as a Shooting Attack counts as a single power for the purposes of this Special Rule, and that this Special Rule does not allow a model to cast the same power multiple times per phase. Predator’s Gaze Those rare few who have survived being hunted by an assassin clade operative long enough to speak of it reported something truly unnatural and unsettling in the gaze of those singular killers. When issuing a challenge, a model with this Special Rule selects the enemy character that accepts the challenge from any models which are eligible to respond. Reinforced Shell Built to survive even the most horrendous damage, this vehicle endured where lesser chassis did not. When a model with this Special Rule loses its last Hull Point, but before resolving the Super-Heavy Explosion, roll a D6. On a Result of a 4+, the model does not explode as normal, but instead its shell is treated from this point onward as a ruined building rather than a vehicle wreck, with its two doorways counted as being open access points to the interior. Paired Weapons Some weapons required they were used together to achieve full effectiveness. A model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule gains an extra Attack. Inertia Suppression Clamps Inertial suppression clamps locked transported troops into place, protecting them from impact. A model with this Special Rule can carry units composed entirely of models with the Infantry Unit Type as though any instance of the Bulky (X) Special Rule they possess had a value of 2 lower than it actually is, to a minimum of 1, for the purposes of Transport Capacity of this model only. Makeshift Weapon Whilst not all tools of the 31st millennium were intended to see combat, in a pinch they too could serve as deadly weapons of war. A model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule may only make a single attack at Initiative Step 1 with it, and may not gain a bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules that would normally grant additional Attacks. No Witnesses As an ancient Terran adage went, ‘there can be no witnesses if there are no survivors’… A model with this Special Rule may never issue or accept Challenges, and ignores any effects or Special Rules that would force it to do so. If the Opposing Player issues a Challenge, a model with this Special Rule may never be chosen as the model who declined it. Lords of the Ruinstorm Among the thronging masses of the warp, the greatest amongst them were rare indeed - and jealous in their command. Only one model with this Special Rule may be included per 1,500 points in your army. Rupture (X) Some weapons lacked the raw power to penetrate the thickest armour, but lighter targets would still find themselves torn apart under such blows regardless. When rolling To Wound for a model that has the Rupture (X) Special Rule, or is attacking with a weapon that has the Rupture (X) Special Rule, for each To Wound roll equal to or higher than the value listed in brackets, the Controlling Player must resolve these wounds at AP 3 instead of the weapon’s normal AP value. For example, a model with the Rupture (5+) Special Rule that rolls To Wound and rolls a result of ‘5’ or higher, the Wound inflicted gains an AP of ‘3’ regardless of the AP value listed on the weapon’s profile. Note that a weapon that has both the Rupture (X) and the Gets Hot Special Rules always uses the base AP of the weapon when rolls of ‘1’ To Hit inflict Wounds on the attacking model. Legiones Astartes Command Tank Some among the Legiones Astartes displayed proficiency in a cupola that none inside or out of the legions could ever hope to approach. A model with this Special Rule is selected as a separate unit, but during the deployment or the game they may join a unit composed entirely of models with the Vehicle Unit Type as though they had the Character Sub-type and Independent Character Special Rule, although they do not gain any additional benefits from these Special Rules or Sub-types. A model with this Special Rule may not join a unit containing any model with a Hull Points Characteristic of 6 or higher. Immobile Fixed in place, or otherwise unable to move in any fashion, these units had to stand their ground or perish. A model with this Special Rule may not move for any reason, including making Run moves, declaring or otherwise making Charge moves, falling back, or make Reactions which would allow it to move. If it would be forced to do so, the model is immediately destroyed. 129 Tank Desant (X) When troops embarked upon this vehicle, they did so across its armoured hull, and so formed an additional layer of protection for their carrier - as they could defend it from harm directly. Any unit embarked upon a Transport with this Special Rule may fire up to (X) ranged weapons (where X is the number in brackets next to the Special Rule), measuring from the Transport’s model. If the unit chooses to fire in this way, they are counted as having moved - note that this may prevent them from shooting certain weapon types. Units with any Special Rule that allows them to count as stationary for the purposes of Shooting attacks (such as Relentless, Legiones Astartes (Death Guard), etc) may not benefit from them whilst embarked on a Transport with this Special Rule. Warp Resplendent Some denizens of the immaterium reached a truly immense size, and so the powers they wielded made others pale in comparison. A model with this Special Rule treats any weapons it is equipped with with a range of “Template” as having a range of “Hellstorm” instead, and any weapons with the “Blast (3”)” Special Rule as having the “Large Blast (5”)” Special Rule instead. In addition, any weapons a model with this Special Rule is equipped with which do not meet either of these conditions instead count their range characteristic as being twice that specified in the weapon’s profile. The Black Shield After escaping the betrayal at Istvaan III, Crysos Morturg continued to harass his Traitor brethren as Captain of the 108th Independent Company. You can include Crysos Morturg model in a Blackshields Detachment. When you do so, replace this model’s Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule. In addition, if Crysos Morturg is selected as the army’s Warlord in a Blackshields Detachment he gains the Master of the Legion Special Rule. If Crysos Morturg is selected as the army’s Warlord in a Blackshields Detachment, you can include Death Guard Mortus Poisoner Squads as part of that Detachment. If you do so, replace their Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule. Soul-Death Whilst this weapon burnt and tore at all living things, it inflicted the most terrible harm upon those with an innate connection to the immaterium. When attacking a model with the Daemon, Psyker, or Corrupted Unit Type or Sub-types, a weapon with this Special Rule gains the Fleshbane, Instant Death, and Breaching (3+) Special Rules. Skilled Rider A lifetime in the saddle allowed the most skilled to fire their arsenal at full effectiveness - even on the move. A model with this Special Rule may opt to run in the Movement Phase and still fire a single ranged weapon in the Shooting Phase. These shots are made at BS2. The To-Hit rolls for these shots cannot be improved by any source. Note that if a unit makes use of this Special Rule, they may not claim the benefits of the Firing Protocols (X) Special Rule in the same Game Turn. Shattered Legionary Whether by betrayal or attrition, many Astartes were separated from their wider Legions during the chaos of the Horus Heresy and forced to band together with warriors outside their own ranks. You can include this model in a Shattered Legion Detachment that includes models representing the same Legion as this model's corresponding variant of Legiones Astartes (X). When you do so, replace this model's Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes (Shattered Legions) Special Rule. This is an exception to the normal rules for Legiones Astartes (Shattered Legions). When included in a Shattered Legions Detachment, this model must represent the same Legion as the variant of Legiones Astartes (X) that is being replaced. ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS: Panoptica Weapon Profiles 132 PANOPTICAWEAPON PROFILES The FAQ, Errata, and Balance Changes made in this document modify a number of weapons’ profiles in various ways - these can be found below. These replace the profiles found in the existing official Games Workshop publications, and operate under the broader Rules and Conventions laid out in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook. If a profile named below exists in multiple publications, the version of it found here should be used wherever that weapon is found. If a weapon has multiple profiles, and some of those available to a weapon are not shown below, then profiles not shown should be treated as unmodified and thus still valid in their original state. All of the weapons found here can only be obtained via their normal routes for purchasing or upgrading units. RANGED WEAPONS Weapon Range Str AP Type Avenger Gatling Cannon 36“ 6 4 Heavy 12, Rending (5+) Baneblade Cannon 72“ 9 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7“), Pinning, Rending (6+) Battle Cannon 48“ 8 4 Heavy 1, Large Blast (5“), Rupture (4+), Breaching (6+), Pinning Exterminator Autocannon 48“ 7 4 Heavy 6, Rending (5+), Twin-Linked Fellblade Accelerator Cannon - AE Shell 100“ 10 2 Ordnance 2, Armourbane (Ranged), Exoshock (4+), Blast (3“), Brutal (3) - HE Shell 100“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7“), Pinning, Rending (6+) Hellhammer Cannon 36“ 12 3 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Sunder, Rending (4+), Brutal (3), Wrecker Macharius Battle Cannon 48“ 8 4 Heavy 2, Large Blast (5“), Rupture (4+), Breaching (6+), Pinning, Shell Shock (1) Macharius Vanquisher Cannon 72“ 9 2 Heavy 2, Sunder, Brutal (2), Twin-Linked, Exoshock (4+) Rapid-Fire Battle Cannon 48“ 8 3 Ordnance 2, Large Blast (5“), Breaching (6+), Pinning Stormhammer Cannon 72“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Shred, Rending (6+) Tremor Cannon 48“ 8 4 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Pinning, Shell Shock (2) Kratos Battlecannon - HE Shells 48“ 8 4 Heavy 1, Large Blast (5“), Rupture (4+), Breaching (6+), Pinning - AP Shells 60“ 8 2 Heavy 2, Sunder, Brutal (2) - Flashburn Shells 24“ 10 1 Heavy 1, Armourbane (Ranged), Wrecker, Gets Hot Phaeton Autocannon - AP Rounds 64“ 7 3 Heavy 3, Sunder, Rending (6+) - Ignis Rounds 64“ 7 3 Heavy 3, Ignores Cover, Rending (6+) Auto Weapons Whether they fire great armour-piercing rounds, huge explosive shells, or a hail of simple bullets, auto weapons are generally grouped by their use of chemical explosives to gain their initial propulsion. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Auto’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Adrathic Destructor 12“ 5 3 Assault 1, Instant Death, Armourbane (Ranged), Breaching (4+), Gets Hot, Ejector Blowout Adrathic Devastor 18“ 6 3 Heavy 2, Instant Death, Armourbane (Ranged), Breaching (4+), Gets Hot, Ejector Blowout Adrasite Spear - Shooting 12“ 5 3 Assault 1, Instant Death, Armourbane (Ranged), Breaching (4+), Gets Hot, Ejector Blowout Adrathic Weapons Based on a similar principle to Disintegration weapons, the classification of weapons commonly known as ‘Adrathics’ were an ancient and terrifying innovation from Old Night, which when fired caused their target’s atoms to spontaneously and immediately seperate. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Adrathic’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. 133 Weapon Range Str AP Type Demolisher Cannon 24“ 12 3 Ordnance 1, Blast (3"), Sunder, Rending (5+), Brutal (3), Wrecker Despoiler Cannon 24“ 10 3 Ordnance 1, Blast (3"), Sunder, Rending (5+), Brutal (3), Wrecker Dreadhammer Siege Cannon 24“ 12 3 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5"), Sunder, Rending (4+), Brutal (4), Wrecker Earthshaker Battery 12” - 240” 9 4 Ordnance 2, Barrage, Large Blast (5“), Shred, Pinning, Breaching (5+) Earthshaker Cannon 12” - 240” 9 4 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5“), Shred, Pinning, Breaching (5+) Mars-Colossus Bombard 12” - 72” 7 3 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Pinning, Shell Shock (1), Ignores Cover, Wrecker Medusa Mortar 36” 9 4 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Pinning, Rending (5+), Brutal (2) Morbus Bombard 36” 10 4 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Pinning, Rending (5+) Mori Quake Cannon 24” - 360” 10/8/6 3 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Mega-Blast, Barrage, Breaching (4+), Seismic Shock, Concussive (1) Nemesis Quake Cannon 24” - 480” 10/8/6 3 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Mega-Blast, Barrage, Breaching (4+), Seismic Shock, Concussive (1) Praetor Launcher - Firestorm Munitions 72” 7 4 Ordnance 2, Barrage, Massive Blast (7”), Pinning, Shell Shock (2), Rending (5+), Ignores Cover - Foehammer Munitions 12” - 72” 8 3 Heavy 12, Guided Fire, Breaching (5+), Ignores Cover Thunderblast Cannon 72” 7 4 Heavy 1, Blast (3”), Barrage, Pinning, Rupture (5+) Artillery Weapons Firing enormous, unguided shells, these weapons have been largely the same since the inception of mechanised warfare - although the size of their munitions has grown ever more… Weapon Range Str AP Type Adrastus Bolt Caliver - Bolt Volley 36“ 5 4 Assault 4, Shred, Pinning Macharius Rotary Bolt Cannon 36” 6 3 Heavy 15, Pinning, Shell Shock (1), Twin-Linked Mortifier Bolter 18“ 4 5 Assault 2, Harrower, Breaching (6+) Vulcan Mega Bolter 60” 6 3 Heavy 15, Pinning, Shell Shock (1), Reactor Overload Bolt Weapons Bolt weapons rely on two stages - their first, a conventional explosive to propel the bolt from the weapon itself, before the second stage’s rocket motor ignites, driving the bolt deep into a target before it detonates. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Bolt’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Grenade Launcher (Secondary) - Krak 24” 6 4 Assault 1, Rupture (6+) Combi Weapons Combi-Weapons are an ancient innovation, pairing a reliable bolt weapon with a secondary armament that is useful for a variety of tasks. Weapon Range Str AP Type Conversion Destructor 0“- 18“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Blind 18“- 42“ 10 2 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Blind, Sunder 42“- 80“ 12 1 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Blind, Sunder Conversion Beam Weapons Conversion Beamers launch a stream of exotic particles and waves of energy at a target, the beam growing in potency until it strikes a target and unleashes its gathered power. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Conversion Beam’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. An attack made with a Conversion Beam Weapon has a number of different profiles, the use of which depends upon how far the chosen target is from the attacking model up to the weapon’s maximum range. When attacking with one of these weapons measure the distance to the target, place the weapon’s Blast template and scatter as normal for a blast weapon. Once the final location of the template has been determined, measure to the centre of the Blast marker and consult the weapon’s chart to determine the effect. 134 Weapon Range Str AP Type Arachnus Storm Cannon 24“ 8 1 Heavy 3, Lance, Exoshock (6+) Belicosa Volcano Cannon 120“ 14 1 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Blast (10“), Ignores Cover Gravis Heavy Lascannon 48“ 10 2 Heavy 2, Sunder Laser Blaster 96“ 12 2 Destroyer 2, Large Blast (5”), Twin-Linked, Ignores Cover Nemesis Volcano Cannon 36“ - 180“ 14 1 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Blast (10“), Ignores Cover Proteus Laser Destroyer 36“ 9 1 Ordnance 2, Twin-Linked, Exoshock (5+), Sunder, Gets Hot Las Weapons Utilising the raw, searing power of light itself, las weapons blind and burn their targets. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Las’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Magna-Melta Array 18“ 8 1 Heavy 6, Armourbane (Melta), Twin-Linked Pyrithite Spear - Shooting 12“ 8 1 Assault 1, Armourbane (Melta) Melta Weapons The white-hot roars of melta weaponry are feared across the galaxy by man and xenos alike - for none can hope to resist the boiling fury emitted by one of their kind for long. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Melta’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Grav-Flux Bombard 18“ † 4 Heavy 1, Large Blast (5”), †Graviton Collapse, Torsion Crusher, Ignores Cover, Concussive (1), Haywire Graviton Weapons Graviton weapons are both feared and respected among all who walk the battlefields of the 31st millenium - for they harness the strength of arms and armour their victim bears against them. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Graviton’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Infernus Firepike Template 6 4 Heavy 1, Torrent (9”) Flame Weapons Propelling great gouts of chemical flame, Flame weapons were often of primitive design - though nevertheless they still struck fear into the hearts of those who witnessed the horror of their effects on flesh. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Flame’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Vratine Grenade Launcher - Krak 24” 6 4 Assault 1, Rupture (6+) Grenade Launcher - Krak 24” 6 4 Assault 1, Rupture (6+) Hermes Grenade Launcher - Krak 18” 6 4 Assault 2, Rupture (6+) Grenade Weapons Grenade launchers are simple, singular weapons, but the fact their design has remained unchanged in thousands of years is testament to their effectiveness. 135 Weapon Range Str AP Type Hellfire Plasma Missiles 36“ 7 4 Heavy 2, Breaching (4+) Plasma Blastgun 72” 9 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Rending (4+), Reactor Overload, Plasma Burn Plasma Weapons The super-heated plasma ejected by various weapons burns hotter than a star for a fraction of a second - but that is often enough… All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Plasma’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Volkite Carronade 45“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Heavy Beam, Deflagrate, Rending (5+), Pinning, Wrecker Volkite Chieorovile - Heat-Blast 45“ 7 3 Heavy 10, Deflagrate, Breaching (5+), Pinning - Concentrated Beam 30“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Heavy Beam, Deflagrate, Breaching (5+), Pinning, Wrecker Volkite Macro-Saker 45“ 6 5 Heavy 8, Deflagrate, Pinning Volkite Veuglaire 30“ 6 4 Heavy 8, Deflagrate Volkite Weapons Those struck by volkite beams are bathed in pulsing red light - and, mere seconds later, raging flames that consume them from the inside out. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Volkite’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Aethon Missile Battery 30“ 4 5 Assault 1, Large Blast (5"), Barrage, Twin-Linked, Pinning Aiolos Missile Launcher 60“ 6 3 Heavy 3, Pinning, Guided Fire, Auto-Servo Tracking Spicula Rocket System 72” 7 4 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Rending (5+), Limited Ammunition, Pinning, Shell Shock (1) Terrebrax Rocket Battery 48“ 7 5 Heavy 12, Guided Fire Whirlwind Missile Launcher - Talonis HE Missile 48” 6 6 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Ignores Cover, Pinning, Shell Shock (1) Missile Weapons Whether guided by laser, satellite, or targeting computer, missiles are a reliable - if antiquated - weapon of war. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Missile’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Animus Blast Template 4 4 Assault 1, Rending (6+), Psy-Shock, Soul-Death Exitus Rifle 100” 7 2 Heavy 1, Murderous Strike (5+), Rending (6+), Sniper, Brutal (2) Lidless Stare (Psychic Weapon) Template 2 - Assault 1, Pinning, Force, Instant Death Exotic and Miscellaneous Weapons The weapons of the Horus Heresy are widely varied and strange beyond measure in aspect. 136 Weapon Range Str AP Type Heavy Chainsword - +2 - Melee, Shred, Two-Handed, Rupture (6+) Reaper Chainblade - 9 2 Melee, Shred, Sunder, Brutal (2) Reaper Chainfist - 12 1 Melee, Shred, Armourbane (Melee), Brutal (3), Exoshock (3+) Reaper Chainsword - 10 2 Melee, Shred, Sunder, Brutal (3) Chain Weapons The toothy grin of chain weapons and the bloody butchery they inflicted were well known and recognised across the galaxy. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Chain’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Arlatax Power Claw - +2 2 Melee, Shred Albian Power Gladius - +1 3 Melee, Master-Crafted, Breaching (5+), Murderous Strike (5+) Darkstar Falling - +2 2 Melee, Two-Handed, Master-Crafted Gravis Power Fist - 9 2 Melee, Brutal (2) Power Blade Array* - User 3 Melee, Breaching (5+) Scyllax Combat Array - Dismember - +3 2 Melee, Makeshift Weapon, Murderous Strike (4+) Shock Charger - User 3 Melee, Brutal (2) Shock Lance (Melee) - 12 2 Melee, Reach (1), Sunder, Shock Pulse, Concussive (2), Brutal (3), Exoshock (2+) Thunderstrike Gauntlet - 12 1 Melee, Brutal (4) Power Weapons Employing power fields atop lethally sharp cutting edges, Power weapons are a firm favourite in the hands of many in the Legiones Astartes and beyond. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Power’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. A model armed with two of the same weapons marked with a * gains +2 attacks, instead of the normal +1 for having two combat weapons. MELEE WEAPONS Weapon Range Str AP Type Las-Impulsor (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Armourbane (Melee), Instant Death Atrapos Phasecutter (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Armourbane (Melee), Instant Death Cutting Tools of the Mechanicum Making use of las-beams, or more esoteric means of slicing through a target, the Mechanicum’s tools and weapons are oft indistinguishable… Weapon Range Str AP Type Behemoth Blade - User 2 Melee, Brutal (3), Sunder, Immaterial Blades (AP1), Lance, Exoshock (5+) Daemonic Weapon Forged outside of this material realm, some weapons glowed from within with accursed light. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Daemonic’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. Weapon Range Str AP Type Graviton Crusher - x2 2 Melee, Unwieldy, Haywire, Two-Handed Graviton Ram (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Armourbane (Melee), Concussive (2), Brutal (2) Graviton Weapons Utilising the same gravity-warping effects as their ranged cousins, melee grav-weapons crush their opponents under impossible forces. All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Graviton’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. 137 Weapon Range Str AP Type Charonite Claws - +3 3 Melee, Two-Handed, Rending (5+), Murderous Strike (6+) Dawnbringer - 10 1 Melee, Master-Crafted, Two-Handed, Armourbane (Melee), Instant Death, Brutal (2) Excoriator Chainaxe - +2 3 Melee, Two-Handed, Shred, Murderous Strike (5+), Unwieldy, Breaching (5+) Falax Blades* - +1 5 Melee, Specialist Weapon, Breaching (5+), Duellist’s Edge (1) Forgebreaker - 12 1 Melee, Master-Crafted, Exoshock (3+), Brutal (3), Two-Handed Hookfang - User 3 Melee, Poisoned (3+), The Venem, Breaching (5+) Hellcrusher Claws - 10 2 Melee, Brutal (3), Sunder Lascutter (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Makeshift Weapon Krak Grenades - 6 3 Melee, Detonation, Unwieldy, Breaching (6+) Melta Lance - 8 1 Melee, Ungainly, Lance, Sudden Strike (2), Two-Handed, One Use Ripper Gun - +1 5 Melee, Reaping Blow (1), Two-Handed Tarsus Buckler - +1 3 Melee Telemon Cestus - 10 1 Melee, Specialist Weapon, Sunder, Brutal (3) Exotic and Miscellaneous Weapons The weapons of the Horus Heresy are widely varied and strange beyond measure in aspect. *A model that upgrades a Chainsword to a Falax Blade replaces the Chainsword with two Falax Blades. ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS: Extrinsica Weapons 140 The weapons below are designed to represent the varied and deadly weapons that could be found in the armouries of the Legiones Astartes, Mechanicum, Imperial Commanders, and beyond across the battlefields of the Great Crusade and Horus Heresy. Unspeakably rare, even when compared to Paragon Blades, these armaments were seen only in the direst of circumstances. Known collectively as “Extrinsica” (Those from Without), these dread weapons claimed countless lives for many masters on both sides of the Heresy. All of the following weapons count as ‘Power’ weapons, and operate under the broader Rules and Conventions laid out for melee weapons in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook. They may only be purchased at the cost shown for a model in your army which has the choice to purchase a Paragon Blade, replacing a Power Weapon, Chainsword, Close Combat Weapon, Execution Blade, or Guardian Spear. You may never have more than a single Extrinsica Melee Weapon across your entire army. If a model is armed with one of these weapons, it may not also be armed with a Paragon Blade. For the purposes of any rules which check for how a weapon is modelled, all Extrinsica Melee Weapons are counted as being swords. EXTRINSICA MELEE WEAPONS Weapon Range Str AP Type Arcanite Shock Maul - +2 3 Melee, Two-Handed, Concussive (2), Haywire, Specialist Weapon Biocore Shatterblade - User 2 Melee, Brittle, Reach (1), Specialist Weapon Paired Mirrorblades - +1 3 Melee, Riposte (1), Paired Weapons, Two-Handed, Breaching (5+) Incipere-Class Weapons Suspected to have been mostly pioneered by the Mechanicum in the early days of the Dark Age of Technology, these weapons were likely designed in answer to xenos technology that presented similar threats. All weapons listed here may be purchased by an eligible model for +20 points. Weapon Range Str AP Type Accelerator Hammer - 7 2 Melee, Two-Handed, Reach (1), Sunder Hydragyric Executioner - +2 2 Melee, Two-Handed, Gyrocoil Charge, Brutal (2) Nanofractal Falchion - User 2 Melee, Murderous Strike (5+), Two-Handed Weapon Range Str AP Type Aetheric Whisper-Blade - User 2 Melee, Dimensional Edge (5+), Specialist Weapon Gyrocyclic Reaper Blade - User 2 Melee, Reaping Blow (1), Felling Blow, Specialist Weapon Calcare-Class Weapons The fruits of tampering by the blighted tribes of pre-unification Terra, these weapons are rumoured to bear curses from such fraught and terrible times - and may allege in quiet voices that the rumours may well be right… All weapons listed here may be purchased by an eligible model for +25 points. Extremis-Class Weapons The devising of desperate madmen, the weapons classified as ‘Extremis’ were known to be potent beyond expectations; though the complexity and idiosyncrasy of their construction made them impossible to replicate. All weapons listed here may be purchased by an eligible model for +30 points. 141 “I remember the Imperium as it was meant to be, as it could have been, and unlike the Emperor, I have no gilded wonder to keep me, and soon I shall pass.” We Remember. Liber Panoptica
Operation Retrograde:
An Unofficial Expansion for the Age of Darkness
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This document has been an immense labour between a team who have gone above and beyond to get everything ready for release.
This expansion was written by the Liber Panoptica Developer Team:
Codewalrus, Ana Nas, Archmagos Alyx, Belisarius Cool, Celebrimbor, Drakeran, Falkenrath, Filwilliamson, Funnybus, Gorf, Grifftofer, Groppcw, JB Minis,
Jervoise, Kari, Kira Nagisho, Lauren Hughes, Lord Marshal Aly, Lord NaCl, Malice, Mephistopheles-Kaisarion, MG16, Pauper&Salt, Simon, Sorakamii, The
Count, Yekeran, realSnice
The Liber Panoptica Developer Team were supported by a group of dedicated play-testers, who we’d like to thank:
Alsoned, Crazykushanpilot, Grey, Hoops (and the whole team at Stafford Nerdgasm!), Ian - Custodes4life, Instar_Nine, Lorddukesirdave, Millymoo444,
Neoth, Oilspillpaintingstudio, Saberaq, Sagacity, Scorbius, Slopgoblin, Sudsierjet, Terror51247, Trajann Valoris, Wraithbalor, Xenokiller
In addition, we’d also like to thank the following contributors who helped us with previous iterations of this project:
Arcangellord, Ash and Gold, Diagonalfire, Djinnpachiro, GOOTS, Gallant, Goltron, Kidder666, King Fluff, Legio Traitoris, Martin (Col. Hertford), Max,
OriginalApplesauce, Spartan CXVII, The Aus30k Team, The Casual, The Ironic Warrior, The J, The Veterans of Terra Team, Tortured Poet, Wiking,
Zerik, Zewl
Finally, a special thanks goes out to the following people:
The Games Workshop, Forge World, and Black Library teams for providing the rules and lore that have inspired and propelled this work forward.
The entire HH: Age of Darkness Discord Server for helping us play-test these units and FAQ items - without you this would not have been possible.
Thanks to Lauren Hughes for the custom page backgrounds and detail elements, and Quinn / IHF for the custom commissioned cover logo.
Thanks to Giacomo Magalhaes - GM ilustra for the gem elements: https://ilustragm.itch.io/
This ruleset is entirely community-made, unofficial, and not for profit. It is not to be sold, distributed for profit, or otherwise restricted in any way. It is
shared entirely out of love for The Horus Heresy game system and our desire to for it to continue. Infringement on any legal rights is not intended.
Some words, terms, and logos in this document are copyrighted – these are used in compliance with copyright laws and procedures,
including this notice.
This document is shared under the provisions of the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 Licence, more information on which can be found here:
https://https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/
This version was released on: 24 / 12 / 2024 - V5.3
1
Foreword
When the HH: Age of Darkness Discord Partner server’s moderation team first saw the
playtest rules for Warhammer: The Horus Heresy’s second edition, we were overjoyed that
our favourite tabletop game was getting the attention and love it deserved. We also were keenly
aware that with such an undertaking, there would be a few clarifications or modifications
required for a handful of rules and units, and some units would unfortunately be left on the
cutting room floor. Some of these things were fan-favourites, though - and so we decided it
would be an undertaking we would happily expend effort ourselves to remedy. This
document’s first edition - which was internally known as Operation: Retrograde during
development - was the result. Since then, the team has grown in size, and this document has
been through numerous revisions, since being joined by several other expansions by the team.
This document - and the other works by the Panoptica Developer Team - are intended to stand
alongside the great works of The Warhammer: Age of Darkness team, providing a full FAQ,
Errata, and Balance Change set for any issues or snags we located along the way, as well as new
missions, game modes, and even new units - though you will still need a copy of the core
Warhammer: Age of Darkness Rulebook, one of the various Liber or PDF faction books, and
the PDFs published via Warhammer Community to make use of them.
We’re keenly aware that some items in this document may, now or in the future, be rendered
obsolete by way of Games Workshop releasing official content for them. If that is the case, it
should be assumed that those rules supersede these - unless you agree otherwise with your
opponent!
We hope you enjoy these rules, and Warhammer: The Horus Heresy!
The Liber Panoptica Development Team
2
CONTENTS
COMMUNITY FAQS, ERRATA, AND BALANCE CHANGES
An Introduction to the Panoptica Community FAQs, Erratas, & Balance Changes.............................................................................................................................. 68
Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Allies Matrix.............................................................................................................................................................................................. 70
Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook...........................................................................................................................................................................................72
Campaigns in the Age of Darkness: The Siege of Cthonia ........................................................................................................................................................................ 76
Campaigns in the Age of Darkness: The Battle for Beta-Garmon............................................................................................................................................................ 78
Campaigns in the Age of Darkness: The Martian Civil War...................................................................................................................................................................... 79
Liber Astartes & Hereticus............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 80
Liber Astartes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 84
Liber Hereticus.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 88
Legacies of the Age of Darkness: Legiones Astartes.................................................................................................................................................................................... 92
Liber Mechanicum............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 96
Legacies of the Age of Darkness: Mechanicum ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 100
Liber Imperium ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................102
Legacies of the Age of Darkness: Solar Auxilia .......................................................................................................................................................................................... 108
Legacies of the Age of Darkness: The Imperialis Militia........................................................................................................................................................................... 110
Exemplary Battles of the Age of Darkness: The Liberation of Constanix II .......................................................................................................................................... 114
Exemplary Battles of the Age of Darkness................................................................................................................................................................................................... 116
Exemplary Battles of the Age of Darkness: Volume One .......................................................................................................................................................................... 117
Exemplary Battles of the Age of Darkness: The Scouring of Gilden’s Star............................................................................................................................................. 118
Exemplary Battles of the Age of Darkness: The Battle of Trisolian: Vengeful Spirit............................................................................................................................ 119
Legacies of the Age of Darkness: Daemons of the Ruinstorm .................................................................................................................................................................120
Additional Wargear Options for Existing Daemons of The Ruinstorm Units ...................................................................................................................................... 121
Exemplary Battles of the Age of Darkness: The Burning of Ohmn-Mat................................................................................................................................................ 122
ADDITIONAL GAME MODES FOR THE AGE OF DARKNESS
Game Mode: Decurion..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 40
Decurion Warband Construction Rules.........................................................................................................................................................................................................41
Reactions in the Decurion Game Mode.........................................................................................................................................................................................................43
Missions in the Decurion Game Mode.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 44
Deployment Maps for the Decurion Game Mode....................................................................................................................................................................................... 46
Game Mode: Centurion................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 50
Incursio Force Organisation Chart................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 50
Reactions in the Centurion Game Mode ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... 51
Missions in the Centurion Game Mode.........................................................................................................................................................................................................52
Centurion Rites of War.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................54
Centurion War-Covenants ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................56
Centurion Cohort Doctrines ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................58
Centurion World-Runes .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 60
Game Mode: Praetorian................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 64
ADDITIONAL MISSIONS FOR THE AGE OF DARKNESS
Additional Standard Missions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6
Additional Apocalypse Missions..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 20
Additional Zone Mortalis Missions ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 26
ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS
Additional Special Rules .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................126
Panoptica Weapon Profiles............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 132
Extrinsica Melee Weapons ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 140
3
ADDITIONAL MISSIONS FOR
THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Standard Missions
6
The Standard Missions presented on the following pages are intended give players a new and exciting way to lay out and play battles in the Age of
Darkness, and can be used alongside, or instead of, the Missions found in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook.
If you wish to randomly select a mission from the ones presented in this section, we recommend you choose six which appeal to you and your
opponent, then roll a D6 to determine which you play.
STANDARDMISSIONS
FOOTHOLD
MISSION 1
‘And so they clashed like thunderheads, and the noise split the sky and the earth; but neither among them could gain a foothold…’
Excerpt from the Chronicles of Ursh
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Dawn of War Deployment Map
should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s victory conditions are achieved by the destruction of the
enemy’s fighting strength, with a particular strategic target in mind
whose loss will cripple their foe.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Secure the Foothold: Before the game begins, divide the battlefield into
4 equally-sized quadrants.
The Player who has the most Scoring units within a table quadrant is
considered to control that quadrant. If a Scoring unit is split between
multiple quadrants, use the quadrant where the majority of the unit is
when calculating who controls it. A unit can only control or deny a
single quadrant at any time. If a Scoring unit is evenly split between
multiple quadrants, the Controlling Player may choose at the end of
their Movement Phase which quarter the unit counts as controlling.
At the end of the game, players score +2 Victory Points for each
quadrant they control. If a quadrant is contested (both players have the
same number of units in the quadrant), each player scores +1 Victory
Point for the contested quadrant.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Big Game Hunter: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +1 Victory Point to the Opposing Player.
7
RESOURCECOLLECTION
MISSION 2
‘The greatest fighting force in the universe, no matter how strong, will fail without ammunition.’
Quote from Roboute Gulliman’s A Treatise on Logistics
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Clash of the Line Deployment
Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s victory conditions are achieved by capturing key logistics
and supplies from the enemy, ensuring the victor can fight on another
battlefield.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Take the Resources: After setting up and deploying the armies,
including Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made,
but before play begins, the players must each place a single Objective
Marker anywhere in their Deployment Zone, and a single Objective
Marker at the centre of the table. These Objective Markers must follow
the standard rules for placing Objectives.
At the end of the game, players score +1 Victory Point if they control the
Objective Marker in their own Deployment Zone, +2 Victory Points if
they control the Objective Marker in the centre of the table, and +3
Victory Points if they control the Objective Marker in their opponent’s
Deployment Zone.
Secondary Objectives
Ground Control: At the end of the game, divide the board into four
equal quadrants. Each quadrant is worth +1 Victory Point to the player
with the most Scoring units in it (units which are falling back are not
counted). If both players have the same number of Scoring units in a
quadrant, it awards no Victory Points.
Linebreaker: Any unit wholly within the opponent’s Deployment Zone
at the end of the game awards the Controlling Player +1 Victory Point.
Attrition: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +1 Victory Point.
8
SCORCH AND BURN
MISSION 3
‘If you cannot take it for yourself, it is better to deny the same to your enemy.’
Ancient Terran Proverb
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Search and Destroy Deployment
Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s victory conditions are achieved by capturing the sensitive
data stores that are located on the battlefield – players must race to
secure what data they can and take as many enemy forces down as
possible whilst doing so.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Deny the Enemy: After setting up and deploying the armies, including
Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made, but before
play begins, the player who deployed first must roll D3+2 - the players
must take turns placing this many Objective Markers, with the player
that Deployed second placing the first Objective Marker. These
Objective Markers must follow the standard rules for placing Objectives,
with the added stipulation that no more than one Objective Marker may
be placed in either player’s Deployment Zone.
At the end of each player turn, players score +1 Victory Point for each
Objective Marker they control. These Victory Points are kept even if that
Objective is lost later in the battle and contribute to the Player’s Victory
Points total at the end of the battle.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition*: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +3 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Burn the Witch: The army which has destroyed the highest number of
enemy units with the Psyker Sub-type at the end of the game gains
+1 Victory Point.
9
POINT BREAK
MISSION 4
‘Often, before the siege itself comes, first come the barrages. This can itself be enough to shatter
the morale of those who survive - but they must, for the true battle is often yet to come.’
An account of barrage warfare, M2.041
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Ambush Deployment Map should
be used. In addition, in the area around the Defender’s Deployment
Zone, extra walls, defensive lines, and so on should be placed, to
represent a dug-in position.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player that
deploys first is automatically determined to be the Defender for the
purposes of Deployment Zone allocation. They must deploy their entire
force, including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units held
in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second is determined to be the Attacker,
and after the Defender has completed deployment should then deploy
their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess, except for
any units placed in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative. For this mission, no modifiers or re-rolls of the
dice to Seize the Initiative are permitted.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s represents a Defender under attack from assault from all
sides, whilst they attempt to hold an entrenched and secured position.
To secure the sector, a battle must commence to determine the final
hold. Failure is not an option.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Hidden Resources: After setting up and deploying the armies, including
Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made, the players
must take turns placing five Objective Markers, with the player that
Deployed second placing the first Objective Marker. These Objective
Markers must follow the standard rules for placing Objectives, with the
added stipulation that one must be secretly marked, in such a way that
neither player knows which Objective Marker is marked.
At the end of the game, reveal the Objective Markers to show the one
which is marked. The player who controlled the marked Objective
Marker at the end of the game scores +3 Victory Points. If this Objective
was contested at the end of the game, the Defender is considered to
have had control and is awarded the Victory Points.
Secondary Objectives
Cache Secured: For each Objective Marker controlled at the end of the
game other than the marked one, the Controlling Player scores
+1 Victory Point.
Big Game Hunter: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +1 Victory Point to the Opposing Player.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
10
ANVIL STRIKE
MISSION 5
‘And so it was that here, the hammer blow fell the hardest... And the slaves of the blind sun died.’
Excerpt from the Musings of the Blind Seer of Agriolex
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Hammer and Anvil Deployment
Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player who
deploys first is determined to be the Attacker.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents a desperate scramble by a routed force to escape
- but unfortunately for them, their way out is blocked, and they must
break through the enemy’s lines to escape.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Sudden Death
Primary Objectives
Extraction: The Attacker’s forces have been encircled, and they must
break through the enemy’s lines to escape utter destruction. In order to
be Extracted, a unit must have a majority of its surviving models within
2” of the Defender’s Board Edge. Once extracted, the unit is removed
from play at the end of the turn, but awards no Victory Points to the
Opposing Player for being removed. Models locked in combat cannot be
Extracted.
Any model which arrives from Reserves, such as via Deep Strike Assault,
may not be placed within 24” of the Defender’s Board Edge. In addition,
no unit may be Extracted on the same turn in which it enters play.
At the end of the game, tally up how many of the Attacker’s units were
successfully Extracted; the Attacker scores that many Victory Points..
At the end of the game, tally up how many of the Attacker’s units are
still on the board, or were completely destroyed during the game; the
Defender scores that many Victory Points.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
SUDDEN DEATH
If, at the end of any Game Turn, any player has no models on the
battlefield, the battle immediately ends regardless of the number of
turns that have been played. Models that are in Reserves do not
count as being ‘on the battlefield’, however models in a unit that is
Falling Back, or Embarked in a model with the Transport Sub-type
or in a Building or Fortification, do.
If a battle is ended due to the Sudden Death rule then the victor is
still decided by Victory points scored up to that point in the battle,
but the player that still has models on the battlefield scores an
additional Victory point.
11
STRATEGIC OUTREACH
MISSION 6
‘Many wars are won not with bold actions, or heroic charges, or even insane heroism - the winning move is often simply having a good plan.’
Unknown Solar Auxilia Commander
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Dawn of War Deployment Map
should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player who
deploys first is determined to be the Attacker.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents subterfuge efforts that have been determined
essential to win the war. Strategic locations identified will allow
precision strikes to rout enemy forces.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Hold at All Costs: After setting up and deploying the armies, including
Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made, the players
must place one Objective Marker each in their Deployment Zones, and
one each outside of Deployment Zones. These Objective Markers must
follow the standard rules for placing Objectives.
At the end of the game, if either player controls the Objective in the
Opposing Player’s Deployment Zone, they gain +4 Victory Points.
At the end of the game, if either player controls an Objective not in a
player’s Deployment Zone, they gain +3 Victory Points.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
12
KILLING BLOW
MISSION 7
“Watch and learn how hounds bring down a bear.”
Khârn, Captain of the 8th Assault Company, World Eaters
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Ambush Deployment Map should
be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents a preemptive strike, designed to end the threat
posed by an enemy force before it becomes insurmountable. Striking
whilst the enemy is ill-prepared a mode of warfare in which many
factions in the Imperium of Man excel - and so, battle is joined…
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Hunt or Be Hunted: After setting up and deploying the armies,
including Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made,
each player must nominate three units from their Opponent’s forces.
At the end of the game, if a player has destroyed one of their Opponent’s
nominated units, they gain +1 Victory Point. If they have destroyed two
of their Opponent’s nominated units, they gain +2 Victory Points. If they
have destroyed three of their Opponent’s nominated units, they gain
+4 Victory Points.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition*: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +2 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
Big Game Hunter*: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +2 Victory Points to the Opposing Player.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
13
SABOTAGE
MISSION 8
‘To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to hear the lamentations of their women.’
Unnamed Terran Warlord, when asked of the joys of war.
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Vanguard Strike Deployment
Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player who
deploys first is determined to be the Attacker.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents acts of deliberate sabotage by a defending force
to prevent cascading advantages building up in their opponent’s favour -
but no competent commander would allow such a thing to occur
uncontested, much less recover compromised supplies...
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Booby-Trapped!: After setting up and deploying the armies, including
Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made, the
Defender must place five Objective Markers onto the board. Only two of
these may be in the Defender’s Deployment Zone - the rest must be at
least 6” outside of the Defender’s Deployment Zone. These Objective
Markers must follow the standard rules for placing Objectives, with the
added stipulation they may not be within 6” of any board edge.
The Defender needs to Sabotage the supply caches to prevent them
falling into enemy hands. When one of the Defender’s units is
controlling an Objective Marker, during the Controlling Player’s
Shooting Phase, it may choose to forfeit any Shooting Attacks it would
make to attempt to sabotage the cache. On a D6 roll of a 4+, the
Objective Marker is sabotaged, and the Defender scores +1 Victory Point.
Once successfully sabotaged, an Objective Marker may not be sabotaged
again. Only one attempt may be made per Objective Marker to sabotage
it per turn.
The Attacker needs to recover the supply caches. If an Objective Marker
is not sabotaged when one of the Attacker’s units takes control of it,
nothing happens, and Attacker scores +1 Victory Point. If an Objective
Marker has been sabotaged by the Defender and is subsequently claimed
by the Attacker, they must immediately roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+,
nothing happens, and Attacker scores +1 Victory Point. On a 1, 2, or 3,
the cache immediately explodes. All units within 3” of the Objective
Marker suffer a Strength 8 AP - Hit for each model in range, followed by
a Pinning Test. The Objective Marker is then removed from play, and
can award no further Victory Points.
At the end of the game, the Attacker gains +1 Victory Point for each
Objective Marker they control.
At the end of the game, the Defender gains +2 Victory Points for each
Objective Marker they sabotaged which subsequently exploded.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Ground Control: At the end of the game, divide the board into four
equal quadrants. Each quadrant is worth +1 Victory Point to the player
with the most Scoring units in it (units which are falling back are not
counted). If both players have the same number of Scoring units in a
quadrant, it awards no Victory Points.
14
CONTROLPOINT
MISSION 9
“The measure of true glory is not to give battle in the bright noon of war, surrounded by brave comrades upon the field of victory,
but to valiantly fight on alone in darkness, with no hope of aid or remembrance, and to spit defiance in midnight's eye.”
Lion El’Jonson, Primarch of the Dark Angels
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Search and Destroy
Deployment Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player who
deploys first is determined to be the Attacker.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone. The player must also deploy two
Barracks buildings - see the Barracks Mission Special Rule.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents the attacker working to secure an essential
location - but the defender has taken efforts to ensure it is hard to take
from them without a fight.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Barracks
Primary Objectives
Shield Barrier: The circular area with a diameter of 18” at the centre of
the Search and Destroy Deployment Map is shielded - neither player’s
models may perform an Infiltrate or Scout move, or any other pre-game
move into this area for any reason. In addition, during the course of the
game, no unit may perform a Deep Strike Assault into this area - any
unit which does so is immediately counted as having suffered a Deep
Strike Mishap.
After setting up and deploying the armies, including Infiltrators and
after Scout redeployments have been made, but before play begins, the
players must each place a single Objective Marker anywhere on the
board, and a single Objective Marker at the centre of the table. These
Objective Markers must follow the standard rules for placing Objectives.
At the end of the game, each player gains +3 Victory Points for each
Objective Marker they control. If an Objective Marker is contested by
both players, both players gain +1 Victory Point.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +1 Victory Points.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Big Game Hunter: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +1 Victory Point to the Opposing Player.
BARRACKS
The Barracks buildings set up during the Defending Player’s
Deployment are impassible terrain, with an Armour Value of 14 on
all sides, and a Hull Points Value of 4. These barracks also have an
Access Point on each side. These Barracks buildings may be set up
in any area on the board, more than 6” outside of the Attacker’s
Deployment Zone. The Barracks can be represented using the GW
Bastion Terrain kit, or any building of an appropriate size.
During the game, the Defender may choose to deploy a single unit
per turn from Reserves onto the table as though they were
disembarking from the Barracks buildings rather than entering
play from the Controlling Player’s Board Edge. These units
disembark following the normal procedure for disembarking from
a building. If a Barracks building is destroyed, it cannot be used for
bringing units onto the board from Reserves again.
15
STRONGHOLD
MISSION 10
‘A fortress is built with blood and toil. Only by blood and toil may it be taken.’
The Emperor of Mankind, Terran Reclamation Campaign
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Ambush Deployment Map should
be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player who
deploys first is determined to be the Attacker.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents an attacking force attempting to take a minor -
but nonetheless well defended - stronghold from the defenders.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Secret Objectives
Primary Objectives
The Fortress, Fallen: After setting up and deploying the armies,
including Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made,
the Defender must place four Objective Markers onto the board, in the
locations indicated on the diagram opposite. These are secret Objectives
- the first time they are controlled by a player during the game, roll a D6
and consult the Secret Objectives chart to see what happens. At the end
of each player turn, players score +1 Victory Point for each Objective
Marker they control. These Victory Points are kept even if that Objective
is lost later in the battle and contribute to the Player’s Victory Points
total at the end of the battle. In addition, for each Secret Objective a
player has revealed at the end of the game, they gain +1 Victory Point.
At the end of the battle, divide the board into four quadrants, but
keeping the Defender’s Deployment Zone as a separate area. The player
who has the most Scoring units in an area is determined to control it.
For each quadrant the either player controls at the end of the game, they
gain +1 Victory Point.
If the Defender controls their Deployment Zone at the end of the game,
they gain +5 Victory Points. If the Attacker controls the Defender’s
Deployment Zone, they gain +3 Victory Points.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Big Game Hunter: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +1 Victory Point to the Opposing Player.
SECRET OBJECTIVES
Whenever a Secret Objective is controlled by a player for the first
time, roll a D6 and consult the below chart:
1 - Bomb!: Each model in the unit which controls the Objective
suffers a Strength 5, AP 4 hit.
2 - Nothing: Nothing of use was found.
3 - Extra Ammo: The unit which revealed the Objective may
double the number of shots it makes in its next Shooting Attack.
4 - Reserve Beacon: The Controlling Player may add +1 to any
Reserve rolls they make in their next turn.
5 - Nothing: Nothing of use was found.
6 - Melta Bomb: The unit which revealed the Objective gains a
single Melta Bomb. This is one use, and only a single model may
use it when attacking.
Defender’s
Deployment Zone
= Objective Marker
12” 36”
18”
6”
6”
6”
72”
48” 12”
16
REFINERY
MISSION 11
“If you remember nothing else from this, brother - remember how this loss stung you.”
Konrad Curze, Primarch of the Night Lords
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Clash of the Line Deployment
Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents a daring raid on a refinery plant which collects
valuable gases and stores them. Both sides want to deny this precious
resource to the enemy - whilst hoarding whatever they can for
themselves…
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Filtration Tankers
Primary Objectives
Take the Tankers: After choosing Deployment Zones, but before
setting up and deploying any models, the players must place a total of
eight Filtration Tankers - these are described in the Mission Special
Rules below. The player who deploys second places five Filtration
Tankers, whilst the player who deploys first places three. These must be
deployed as per the normal rules for Objective Markers.
At the end of the game, each player gains +3 Victory Points for each
Filtration Tanker they control, and +1 Victory Point for each Filtration
Tanker they have destroyed.
Secondary Objectives
Ground Control: At the end of the game, divide the board into four
equal quadrants. Each quadrant is worth +1 Victory Point to the player
with the most Scoring units in it (units which are falling back are not
counted). If both players have the same number of Scoring units in a
quadrant, it awards no Victory Points.
Big Game Hunter: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +1 Victory Points to the Opposing Player.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
FILTRATION TANKERS
The Filtration Tankers are Impassible Terrain, with an Armour
Value of 11 on all sides, and a Hull Points Value of 3. These
Filtration Tankers should be represented by appropriate terrain
approximately 2” in diameter, by 4” tall. Filtration Tankers should
be treated as having the Vehicle Unit Type, and in addition,
whenever rolling on the Vehicle Damage Table to determine the
result of a Penetrating Hit, add +1 to the result rolled. This
modifier is cumulative with other modifiers, such as an AP value of
1 or 2, or the modifier imposed by the Wrecker Special Rule.
During the game, any model which makes a Shooting Attack from
outside 12” at a Filtration Tanker must Snap Shoot - the Tanks are
surrounded by great clouds of steam and gas that obscure vision
and stymie even the best sensors.
Filtration Tankers are treated like normal Objective Markers for
purposes of determining if a unit controls them.
17
HEAVY ORDNANCE
MISSION 12
“Nothing in the world truly beats the thundering of guns.”
Unknown Iron Warriors Captain.
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, all scenery should be set up, except
Fortifications included as part of any army. For this mission, do not roll
to determine a Deployment Map - the Ransack Deployment Map found
below should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second. The player who
deploys first is determined to be the Attacker.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission represents an Attacker attempting to crack the defensive
position manned by the Defender, in order to break through their lines.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
Primary Objectives
Break their Lines: After setting up and deploying the armies, including
Infiltrators and after Scout redeployments have been made, the
Defender must place one Objective Marker into their Deployment Zone,
and one into no man’s land. The Attacker then must place one Objective
Marker anywhere on the board that is outside of the Defender’s
Deployment Zone. These Objective Markers must follow the standard
rules for placing Objectives, with the added stipulation they may not be
within 6” of any board edge.
At the end of the game, the Attacker gains +4 Victory Points for each
Objective Marker the Defender placed that they control.
At the end of the game, the Defender gains +3 Victory Points if they hold
the Objective Marker the Attacker placed.
In addition, for each of the Attacker’s units the Defender destroys, they
gain +1 Victory Point.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Ground Control: At the end of the game, divide the board into four
equal quadrants. Each quadrant is worth +1 Victory Point to the player
with the most Scoring units in it (units which are falling back are not
counted). If both players have the same number of Scoring units in a
quadrant, it awards no Victory Points.
Defender’s
Deployment Zone
Attacker’s
Deployment Zone
36”
36”
36”
72”
48”
24”
ADDITIONAL MISSIONS FOR
THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Apocalypse Missions
20
The Apocalypse Missions presented on the following pages are intended give players the ability to play battles in the Age of Darkness which reach a
truly terrifying scale whilst still allowing for balanced gameplay. As such, we recommend playing these missions with forces of 4,000 points or above,
and on a table of 8x6ft or larger. On a table of this size, we recommend increasing the measurements of Deployment Zones and so on to scale with
the table size - for example, the Dawn of War Deployment Map would use 18” Deployment Zones, instead of 12”, as the table is 50% larger.
If you wish to randomly select a mission from the ones presented in this section, we recommend you and your opponent roll a D3 to determine
which you play.
APOCALYPSEMISSIONS
COLD STORAGE
MISSION 1
‘Among the burned fields, across the cities torn to rubble, and in view of the stars set ablaze - these all will be the battlefields of this war.’
Unknown Imperial Commander
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed or sides determined, all scenery should
be set up, except Fortifications included as part of any army. At this
point, Air Filtration Tanks should be placed as per the Take the Tankers
Primary Objective. For this mission, do not roll to determine a
Deployment Map - the Dawn of War Deployment Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After four turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a fifth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s victory conditions are achieved by both the utter
decimation of the enemy’s fighting strength, and also the denial of key
Strategic resources, without which the foe will struggle to recover.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Filtration Tankers
Primary Objectives (continued)
Drowned in Blood: At the end of the game, each player should total up
the number of enemy units they have completely destroyed, or are
falling back at the end of the game. Each unit of a given Unit Type
awards them an additional amount of Victory Points, as below:
? Infantry & Daemons: +1 Victory Point
? Dreadnoughts, Automata, Cavalry, and Armigers: +2 Victory Points
? Vehicles (Without the Super-Heavy, Titan, & Lumbering Sub-type):
+2 Victory Points
? Vehicles (With the Super-Heavy, Titan, or Lumbering Sub-type):
+4 Victory Points
? Primarchs: +6 Victory Points
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
Big Game Hunter: Before the game begins, both players must declare a
single unit in their army which has the highest total points cost of any
of their units. If this unit is destroyed during the course of the game it is
worth an additional +1 Victory Point to the Opposing Player.
FILTRATION TANKERS
The Filtration Tankers are Impassible Terrain, with an Armour
Value of 11 on all sides, and a Hull Points Value of 4. These
Filtration Tankers should be represented by appropriate terrain
approximately 2” in diameter, by 4” tall. Filtration Tankers should
be treated as having the Vehicle Unit Type, and in addition,
whenever rolling on the Vehicle Damage Table to determine the
result of a Penetrating Hit, add +2 to the result rolled. This
modifier is cumulative with other modifiers, such as an AP value of
1 or 2, or the modifier imposed by the Wrecker Special Rule.
During the game, any model which makes a Shooting Attack from
outside 18” at a Filtration Tanker must Snap Shoot - the Tanks are
surrounded by great clouds of steam and gas that obscure vision
and stymie even the best sensors.
Filtration Tankers are treated like normal Objective Markers for
purposes of determining if a unit controls them.
Primary Objectives
Take the Tankers: After choosing Deployment Zones, but before
setting up and deploying any models, the players must place a total of
eight Filtration Tankers - these are described in the Mission Special
Rules below. The player who deploys second places five Filtration
Tankers, whilst the player who deploys first places three. These must be
deployed as per the normal rules for Objective Markers.
At the end of the game, each player gains +3 Victory Points for each
Filtration Tanker they control, and +2 Victory Points for each Filtration
Tanker they have destroyed.
21
BLOODBATH
MISSION 2
‘Until the ground itself pools and flows crimson. Until the soil is stained evermore with the blood of the enemy.’
Angron, Primarch of the World Eaters
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed, deployment maps must be determined
and all scenery should be set up, except Fortifications included as part of
any army. Finally, place or select mission Objectives in accordance with
the Mission Special Rules section.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After four turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a fifth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s victory conditions are achieved by capturing key areas
and zones, and denying the same to the enemy - whilst also attempting
to break the opposing forces to prevent a counter-attack!
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Bloodbath Objectives
? Heavy Armour
Primary Objectives
Bloodbath Objectives: At the start of each Active player’s turn, the
current Active Player gains +1 Victory Point for each Objective marker
they control. These Victory Points are kept even if that Objective is lost
later in the game, and contribute to the player’s Victory Points total at
the end of the game. In addition, At the end of the game, roll a D6 on
the table found in the Bloodbath Objectives Special Rule boxout to
determine the worth, if any, of each Objective controlled by the player
at the end of the game. Roll once for each Objective.
Tide of Carnage: Each sector of the battlefield is worth a certain
amount of Victory Points for the side who controls it at the end of the
game. In order to claim a sector, a side must have one or more Scoring
units in the sector and the enemy must have no Scoring units left in that
sector. The sectors of the battlefield are defined as follows:
• Player’s own Deployment Zone: +3 Victory Points
• No Man’s Land (the area of the battlefield which is not covered by
either Deployment Zone): +5 Victory points
• Opposing Player’s Deployment Zone: +7 Victory points
Death Toll: At the end of the game, each side gains +1 Victory Point for
each unit they have destroyed or that is Falling Back at the end of the
game.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by a player during their first
turn is worth additional +1 Victory Point to them at the end of the game.
BLOODBATH OBJECTIVES
This mission uses five Objective markers. During the game’s setup, but before deployment has been determined, the players take
turns in placing one Objective each in the area of the table outside
of the players’ Deployment Zones until all of the Objectives have
been placed, with the player that Deployed second placing the first
Objective Marker. These markers may not be placed within 6" of
each other or a battlefield edge.
At the end of the game, roll a D6 on the following table to
determine the worth, if any, of each Objective controlled by the
player at the end of the game. Roll once for each Objective.
Alternative – Objective Terrain
Rather than use Objective markers, if both sides agree, individual
pieces of terrain may instead be specified as the mission’s
Objectives. It is suggested in this case that three terrain pieces be
used, which must be fully located outside of either players’
Deployment Zones and suitably marked to identify them. Each
should be distinct and easily identifiable, and have a suggested
total size of no less than 6" on each side and no more than 12" on
each side, and be substantial enough to provide cover to Infantry
models inside them. Suitable types of terrain include ruins, large
shell craters, redoubts, derelict buildings, vehicle wrecks, etc. In
order to claim or deny a piece of Objective Terrain, a valid Scoring
or Denial unit (as appropriate) must have at least one model within
6" of the centre of the terrain’s ground level. A unit may never
claim or deny more than a single piece of Objective Terrain at
once.
D6 Result
1-2 No Victory Points
3-4 +1 Victory Points
5-6 +3 Victory Points
HEAVY ARMOUR
In addition to the usual Scoring units, all Vehicles that are not
Flyers, are also classed as Scoring units in this mission.
22
KINGMAKER
MISSION 3
‘Face me, coward! Face me and die with honour, or stay in your hole and die with none! ’
Archmagos Malagra Stranivariax, Forge World Arkadia
THE ARMIES
For this mission, all players select armies using the standard Horus
Heresy – Age of Darkness rules and any one Force Organisation chart of
each player’s choice, to an agreed points limit.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before any models are deployed or sides determined, all scenery should
be set up, except Fortifications included as part of any army. For this
mission, do not roll to determine a Deployment Map - the Search and
Destroy Deployment Map should be used.
DEPLOYMENT
To determine deployment order, the players roll off.
The winner may choose to deploy first or second.
Both players must then set aside their Warlord, and either the Retinue
unit purchased for their Warlord, or a single unit they would normally
be able to join during Deployment if no Retinue unit was purchased for
them, to be deployed as per the Kingmaker Mission Special Rule.
The player who deploys first selects their Deployment Zone and then
deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess,
except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force,
including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in
Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
FIRST TURN
The Player who deployed first has the first turn, unless their opponent
can Seize the Initiative.
GAME LENGTH
After four turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a fifth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
This mission’s victory conditions are achieved by the recovery - or theft
- of key items, as well as the execution of the enemy’s leadership.
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory
points has won the game. If the players have the same number of
Victory points, the game ends in a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Reserves
? Night Fighting
? Ceasefire
? Kingmaker
? Relics of a Bygone Age
Primary Objectives
The Spoils of War: After choosing Deployment Zones, but before
setting up and deploying any models, the players must take it in turns
placing a total of D6+3 Relic Markers, with the player that Deployed
second placing the first Objective Marker. These Relic Markers may not
be placed within 12” of each other, inside either player’s Deployment
Zone, or within 9” of a table edge. The Relic Markers may be interacted
with by units during the course of the game as per the Relics of a
Bygone Age Mission Special Rule.
Priority Target: At the end of the game, if a player’s Warlord is still alive
and in play, that player gains +5 Victory Points.
In addition, during the course of the game, if either player’s Warlord is
slain and removed from play, a marker should be placed in their last
position. This marker is treated as a Relic Marker, and may be interacted
with by units during the course of the game as per the Relics of a
Bygone Age Mission Special Rule. These markers are worth an
additional +3 Victory Points on top of those awarded by the Relics of a
Bygone Age Mission Special Rule if they are recovered by either player.
Secondary Objectives
Hammerfall: Each Heavy Support unit destroyed by a player during the
course of the game awards them an additional +1 Victory Point.
A Light in the Dark: Any unit with the Independent Character Special
Rule which is carrying a Relic Marker at the end of the game awards the
Controlling Player an additional +2 Victory Points. If this unit is also the
player’s Warlord, they gain another +2 Victory Points.
CEASEFIRE
During the first game turn, a unit containing a Warlord may not be
targeted by any Shooting Attack, or declared as a Charge target,
except by a unit containing the Opposing Player’s Warlord.
If a unit containing a Warlord makes a Shooting Attack or declares
a Charge against any unit which is does not contain the enemy’s
Warlord then this Mission Special Rule immediately ceases to have
any effect.
KINGMAKER
Instead of deploying normally in the Controlling Player’s
Deployment Zone, each player’s Warlord must be deployed outside
the normal Deployment zones, within the circular area at the
centre of the Search and Destroy Deployment Map, before any
other units are deployed.
If the Warlord has a Retinue unit of any kind, this must be
deployed with them. If they do not have a Retinue unit, then a
single unit they would normally be able to join during Deployment
should be deployed with them instead.
23
RELICS OF A BYGONE AGE
This mission makes use of D6+3 Relic Markers. During the game’s
set-up, but before deployment has been determined, the players
take turns in placing one Relic Marker each in the area of the table
outside of the players’ Deployment Zones until all of the Relic
Markers have been placed. These markers may not be placed
within 12" of each other, or 9” of a battlefield edge.
At the end of a player’s Movement Phase, if they have a unit with at
least one model with the Infantry Unit Type within 1” of a Relic
Marker, they may elect to have that model pick up the Relic. If they
do so, the marker should be moved with the model that picked it
up for the rest of the game. A unit may only contain one model
carrying a Relic Marker at any time. At the end of any of the
Controlling Player’s Movement Phases, they may elect to have a
model carrying a Relic Marker drop it - if so, it is placed within 1”
of the model that was carrying it. If a model carrying a Relic
Marker is slain, place the Relic Marker as close as possible to the
model’s last position on the board.
At the end of the game, total up how many Relic Markers your
units are carrying. Each Relic Marker carried is worth +3 Victory
Points. If either player has twice or more the number of Relic
Markers their opponent has, then the player gains an additional +2
Victory Points.
ADDITIONAL MISSIONS FOR
THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Zone Mortalis Missions
26
The Zone Mortalis Missions presented on the following pages are intended give players a new and exciting way to lay out and play battles in the Age
of Darkness, and can be used alongside, or instead of, the Missions found in Campaigns in the Age of Darkness: Siege of Cthonia’s Zone Mortalis
Rules.
If you wish to randomly select a mission from the ones presented in this section, we recommend you and your opponent roll a D6 to determine
which you play.
ZONEMORTALISMISSIONS
PRIORITYCARGO
MISSION 1
In the dark and dangerous confines of the Zone Mortalis, cargoes of special importance could be commonplace. Such cargo could become the focus of
fierce fighting, with factions desperately trying to snatch them from each other in desperate attempts to gain some - or any - advantage.
SETTING UP THE GAME
The Zone Mortalis Battlefield should be set up as per the rules found in
the Zone Mortalis section of the Campaigns in the Age of Darkness:
Siege of Cthonia book.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Before setting up the battle, players must determine Strategic
Advantage. The player with Strategic Advantage selects which player is
the Attacker and which player is the Defender.
REINFORCEMENT POINTS
The Attacker starts with 8 Reinforcement Points to place units in their
own Deployment Zone.
Any Reinforcement Points not used to place units in a player’s
Deployment Zone during deployment are retained.
Both players gain 2 Reinforcement Points at the end of each Game Turn,
in addition to any gained through mission Special Rules.
FIRST TURN
The player with Strategic Advantage takes the first turn, unless their
opponent successfully rolls for First Strike.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
The Zone Mortalis Mission: Priority Cargo represents two factions
fighting to steal invaluable cargo that could mean the difference
between their survival - or extinction. At the end of the battle, the Player
who has scored the most Victory Points has won the battle. If the
players have the same number of Victory Points, the Player who has
scored the most Victory Points from Secondary Objectives has won the
battle. If the players have the same number of Victory Points and have
scored the same number of Victory Points from Secondary Objectives,
the result is a draw.
Primary Objectives
Secure the Cargo: After the Objective Markers have been placed on the
board but before the game begins, a dice must be rolled under a cup or
similar obscuring object - this should not be revealed until the end of
the game.
In this Mission, Objective Markers are not worth any Victory Points
when held - instead, any Scoring unit may choose to have a model
“secure” the cargo the Objective Marker represents during the
Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase, before making a Shooting Attack.
The model which secures the cargo is then considered to be carrying the
Objective Marker, and cannot make Shooting Attacks for any reason. In
addition, a unit with a model carrying an Objective Marker cannot
Advance, or activate any form of Jump or Jet Pack, or use any form of
wings, they are equipped with.
The model carrying the Objective Marker may choose to drop the
Objective Marker during any of the Controlling Player’s following
Shooting Phases. If the model carrying the Objective Marker is killed for
any reason, the Objective Marker is dropped as close as possible to the
last position of the carrying model.
An Objective Marker carried in this way must be returned to the
Controlling Player’s Deployment Zone to be counted as “successfully
retrieved”.
At the end of the game, the dice rolled at the start of game and kept
obscured must be revealed - if the number on it matches an Objective
Marker successfully retrieved by either player, that player scores
+5 Victory Points.
DEPLOYMENT
The battlefield is divided into four equal quadrants as shown in the
deployment map opposite. The Defender chooses one quadrant to be
their Deployment Zone and deploys all units included as part of their
force anywhere in this area (and is always assumed to have enough
Reinforcement Points to do so) but not anywhere within 6” of the centre
of the board.
The Attacker must deploy units from their army up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with in either of the board quadrants
directly adjacent to the Defender’s Deployment Zone, up to the amount
of Reinforcement Points they start with, but not anywhere within 6” of
the centre of the board, placing any remaining units into
Reinforcements.
After setting up and deploying the armies, but before play begins, the
two players must then take turns placing a total of 6 Objective Markers,
with the player that Deployed second placing the first Objective Marker.
The Objective Markers must be placed following the restrictions on
page 306 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, with the
following additional restrictions and exceptions:
? Objective Markers may not be placed within 6” of each other.
? Objective Markers may not be placed within 3” of any player’s
Deployment Zone.
? Objective Markers must be clearly numbered, one through six.
27
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch Choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition*: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
Last Man Standing*: The side with the greatest number of surviving
units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
Quadrant 1 Quadrant 2
Quadrant 3 Quadrant 4
12”
48”
48”
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Counter Assault
COUNTER ASSAULT
When deploying units from Reinforcements, the Controlling
Player may choose to expend additional Reinforcement Points to
deploy units as a Counter Assault, as per the table that follows:
For the purposes of this mission, a Player’s Board Edges are
determined to be the board edges on the two sides of their
Deployment Quadrant. Flank Edges are determined to be the
Board Edges in Quadrants not used as Deployment Zones by either
player.
Battlefield Edge Reinforcement Points Cost
Attacker Defender
Controlling Player’s Edge 0 0
Flank Edge +1 +1
Opposing Player’s Edge +3 +3
28
LIGHTS OUT
MISSION 2
In the dark and dangerous confines of the Zone Mortalis, cargoes of special importance could be commonplace. Such cargo could become the focus of
fierce fighting, with factions desperately trying to snatch them from each other in desperate attempts to gain some - or any - advantage.
DEPLOYMENT
Players must deploy units from their army up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, placing any remaining units into
Reinforcements.
The battlefield is divided into four equal quadrants as shown in the
deployment map opposite. The Defender chooses one quadrant to be
their Deployment Zone and deploys units into it, up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, but not anywhere within 6” of the
centre of the board, placing any remaining units into Reinforcements.
The Attacker then rolls a D6. On a roll of a 3 or lower, the quadrant
opposite that of their opponent is their Deployment Zone. On a roll of a
4 or higher, they may choose any of the three remaining quadrants to be
their Deployment Zone. They must then deploy their units anywhere in
this area, up to the amount of Reinforcement Points they start with, but
not anywhere within 6” of the centre of the board, placing any
remaining units into Reinforcements.
After setting up and deploying the armies, but before play begins, the
Defender places four Objective Markers, one in each of the quadrants.
The Objective Markers must be placed following the restrictions on
page 306 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, with the
following additional restrictions and exceptions:
? Objective Markers may not be placed within 6” of the centre of the
battlefield or each other.
? Objective Markers must be placed touching a Column or Wall.
FIRST TURN
The player with Strategic Advantage takes the first turn, unless their
opponent successfully rolls for First Strike.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
The Zone Mortalis Mission: Lights Out represents the Players
attempting to confound and harass each other in the darkened confines
of a Zone Mortalis, making use of Lighting and Door-seals to steer their
foes into the teeth of their weapons. At the end of the battle, the Player
who has scored the most Victory Points has won the battle. If the
players have the same number of Victory Points, the Player who has
scored the most Victory Points from Secondary Objectives has won the
battle. If the players have the same number of Victory Points and have
scored the same number of Victory Points from Secondary Objectives,
the result is a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Lights Out!
? Counter Assault
Primary Objectives
Control Panel Override: At the start of each turn, the current Active
Player gains 1 Victory Point for each Objective Marker they control
which is in the Activated State (see the Lights Out! Special Rule). These
Victory Points are kept even if that Objective is lost later in the battle
and contribute to the Player’s Victory Points total at the end of the
battle.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch Choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +1 Victory Point.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Before setting up the battle, players must determine Strategic
Advantage. The player with Strategic Advantage selects which player is
the Attacker and which player is the Defender.
REINFORCEMENT POINTS
Both players start with 7 Reinforcement Points to place units in their
own Deployment Zones.
Any Reinforcement Points not used to place units in a player’s
Deployment Zone during deployment are retained.
Both players gain 2 Reinforcement Points at the end of each Game Turn,
in addition to any gained through mission Special Rules.
SETTING UP THE GAME
The Zone Mortalis Battlefield should be set up as per the rules found in
the Zone Mortalis section of the Campaigns in the Age of Darkness:
Siege of Cthonia book.
29
LIGHTS OUT!
At the start of the Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase, if they have
an Infantry unit within 1” of an Objective, then instead of Shooting
as normal the unit may choose to make use of its control panel.
An Objective may only have its control panel used once per player
turn. The Controlling Player may attempt to Activate or Deactivate
the Objective on which the control panel they are using. If so, this
succeeds on a roll of 3+, and the Objective is Activated or
Deactivated, depending on its original state. On a roll of a 1 or 2,
the Objective which they are using the control panel of instead
immediately enters the Deactivated State.
Instead of using the control panel to affect their own Objective,
the Controlling Player may choose to use it to Activate or
Deactivate another objective on the board. If so, this succeeds on a
roll of 4+. On a roll of a 1, 2, or 3, the Objective which they are
using the control panel of instead immediately enters the
Deactivated State.
Deactivating an Objective immediately makes the Quadrant in
which it is present come under the effects of the Night Fighting
rules - with the added restriction that the range restriction is
lowered to 12”, instead of the normal 24”. In addition, all doors in
the quadrant immediately close and are Locked. Whilst
Deactivated, an Objective cannot give the Controlling Player any
Victory Points. If a door in this state is closed and locked whilst a
unit is split across both sides of it, any model which finds itself
standing with any part of its base in contact with the door
threshold when it closes in this manner takes an immediate
Crushed hit, as described on page 173 of the Zone Mortalis Rules in
the Siege of Cthonia Campaign Book.
Activating an Objective immediately removes the effects of the
Night Fighting rules on the quadrant in which the objective is
present. In addition, all doors in the quadrant are immediately
unlocked, but remain closed. If a door is destroyed, it is unaffected.
Whilst Activated, an Objective can give the Controlling Player
Victory Points. All Objectives start the game in the Activated state.
In a Mission with this Special Rule, no player may attempt to
perform a System Override.
Quadrant 1 Quadrant 2
Quadrant 3 Quadrant 4
12”
48”
48”
COUNTER ASSAULT
When deploying units from Reinforcements, the Controlling
Player may choose to expend additional Reinforcement Points to
deploy units as a Counter Assault, as per the table that follows:
For the purposes of this mission, a Player’s Board Edges are
determined to be the board edges on the two sides of their
Deployment Quadrant. Flank Edges are determined to be the
Board Edges in Quadrants not used as Deployment Zones by either
player.
Battlefield Edge Reinforcement Points Cost
Attacker Defender
Controlling Player’s Edge 0 0
Flank Edge +1 +1
Opposing Player’s Edge +3 +3
30
DEAD VOID
MISSION 3
Fighting aboard a space-borne vessel is a dangerous affair - for often the battlefield the combatants take to is often suffering
damage as much as those aboard it, and the void will seek any route it can to kill those foolish enough to stumble into it…
DEPLOYMENT
Players must deploy units from their army up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, placing any remaining units into
Reinforcements.
The battlefield is divided into four equal quadrants as shown in the
deployment map opposite. The Defender chooses one quadrant to be
their Deployment Zone and deploys units into it, up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, but not anywhere within 6” of the
centre of the board, placing any remaining units into Reinforcements.
The Attacker then rolls a D6. On a roll of a 3 or lower, the quadrant
opposite that of their opponent is their Deployment Zone. On a roll of a
4 or higher, they may choose any of the three remaining quadrants to be
their Deployment Zone. They must then deploy their units anywhere in
this area, up to the amount of Reinforcement Points they start with, but
not anywhere within 6” of the centre of the board, placing any
remaining units into Reinforcements.
After setting up and deploying the armies, but before play begins, the
Defender places four Objective Markers, one in each of the quadrants.
The Objective Markers must be placed following the restrictions on
page 306 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, with the
following additional restrictions and exceptions:
? Objective Markers may not be placed within 9” of the centre of the
battlefield or each other.
FIRST TURN
The player with Strategic Advantage takes the first turn, unless their
opponent successfully rolls for First Strike.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
The Zone Mortalis Mission: Dead Void represents the Players taking the
fight to a spacecraft in the midst of cracking apart under the weight of
enemy fire, desperately scrabbling to recover key items or intel. At the
end of the battle, the Player who has scored the most Victory Points has
won the battle. If the players have the same number of Victory Points,
the Player who has scored the most Victory Points from Secondary
Objectives has won the battle. If both players have the same number of
Victory Points and have scored the same number of Victory Points from
Secondary Objectives, the result is a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Unstable Ground
? The Hungering Void
? Counter Assault
Primary Objectives
Claim the Intel: At the start of the Controlling Player’s Turn, if they
have a unit with the Line Sub-type within 1” of an Objective, they can
attempt to Claim the Intel. The unit attempting to Claim the Intel may
not Move, make Shooting Attacks, or declare Charges this turn - if they
do so for any reason, their attempt to Claim the Intel fails and they will
have to try again in a following turn.
At the end of the Controlling Player’s Turn, if the unit has successfully
Claimed the Intel, the Controlling Player immediately scores +3VP, and
the Objective Marker is removed from the board.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch Choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +1 Victory Point.
Last Man Standing: The side with the greatest number of surviving
units at the end of the game gains +1 Victory Point.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Before setting up the battle, players must determine Strategic
Advantage. The player with Strategic Advantage selects which player is
the Attacker and which player is the Defender.
REINFORCEMENT POINTS
Both players start with 6 Reinforcement Points to place units in their
own Deployment Zones.
Any Reinforcement Points not used to place units in a player’s
Deployment Zone during deployment are retained.
Both players gain 2 Reinforcement Points at the end of each Game Turn,
in addition to any gained through mission Special Rules.
SETTING UP THE GAME
The Zone Mortalis Battlefield should be set up as per the rules found in
the Zone Mortalis section of the Campaigns in the Age of Darkness:
Siege of Cthonia book.
In this Mission, it is assumed the battlefield automatically has a ceiling.
In addition, when setting up the battlefield, the amount of Doors
Terrain to be used is increased to 3 per 12” x 12” grid section.
31
THE HUNGERING VOID
Whenever a door is opened (or is destroyed) which leads to a
Section of the battlefield which has not previously been inhabited
by a unit before during the battle, the Controlling Player must
immediately roll a D6. On a roll of 3+, nothing happens - but on a
roll of a 1 or 2, the hapless unit has accidentally uncovered a
depressurised section of the ship and risks being sucked out into
the void!
All units with at least one model within 12" of the door (and within
line of sight of it) must take an immediate Initiative test, to see if
they are quick enough to activate their mag-boots or otherwise
grab hold of something. Units made entirely of models with the
Dreadnought, Monstrous, or Automata Unit type, or the Heavy
Sub-type, gain a +1 bonus to their Initiative Characteristic for the
purposes of this Characteristic test. This bonus may only be
claimed once per unit for each Initiative test.
A unit which fails the Initiative test was not fast enough to take
action, and is sucked out into space - the void hungers, and they
are its prey. Units sucked into space are counted as destroyed, and
the Opposing Player may claim Victory Points for them as normal.
A unit which passes the test suffers no further ill effects. The door
then immediately closes, and is locked - it may not be opened
again for the rest of the battle, and if destroyed remains in place.
In a Mission with this Special Rule, no player may attempt to
perform a System Override.
UNSTABLE GROUND
The floor around the Objective Markers is littered with debris and
is at risk of collapse at any given moment. An area of 3” radius
around each Objective Marker is counted as Difficult, Dangerous,
and Hazardous Terrain.
This effect persists even if an Objective Marker is removed thanks
to a successful attempt to Claim the Intel!
In addition, in a mission with this Mission Special Rule in play, no
unit may make a pre-game redeployment via any Special Rule.
COUNTER ASSAULT
When deploying units from Reinforcements, the Controlling
Player may choose to expend additional Reinforcement Points to
deploy units as a Counter Assault, as per the table that follows:
For the purposes of this mission, a Player’s Board Edges are
determined to be the board edges on the two sides of their
Deployment Quadrant. Flank Edges are determined to be the
Board Edges in Quadrants not used as Deployment Zones by either
player.
Battlefield Edge Reinforcement Points Cost
Attacker Defender
Controlling Player’s Edge 0 +1
Flank Edge +1 +1
Opposing Player’s Edge Unavailable +3
Quadrant 1 Quadrant 2
Quadrant 3 Quadrant 4
12”
48”
48”
32
INGRESS
MISSION 4
Zone Mortalis warzones were rarely static places - and gaining access to them was often a difficult affair. Zones Mortalis were most commonly
huge sprawling complexes or space-faring vessels, and such things often had a defined edge - and it was these leading walls that were
often the place where boarding torpedoes or assault drills would find their ingress…
DEPLOYMENT
The Defender must deploy units from their army up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, placing any remaining units into
Reinforcements.
The Defender's Deployment Zone is anywhere within 9" of the long
board edge, as shown in the Deployment Map.
The Attacker does not deploy any units before the battle - instead see
the Zone Breach mission Special Rule below for the process in which the
Attacker's units enter play from the Attacker’s Board Edge.
After deployment is complete, the Attacker and Defender must then
finally place two Objective Markers each, for a total of four Objectives.
The Objective Markers must be placed following the restrictions on
page 306 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, with the
following additional restrictions and exceptions:
? Objective Markers may not be placed within 6” of each other.
? Objective Markers may not be placed within 6” of any Access Point.
FIRST TURN
The player with Strategic Advantage takes the first turn, unless their
opponent successfully rolls for First Strike.
GAME LENGTH
After four turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
The Zone Mortalis Mission: Ingress represents a desperate scramble by
the Defender to keep an Attacker out of their vessel or bunker - whilst
the Attacker keeps on coming via their boarding torpedoes or assault
drills, regardless of the Defender’s efforts. At the end of the battle, the
Player who has scored the most Victory Points has won the battle. If the
players have the same number of Victory Points, the Player who has
scored the most Victory Points from Secondary Objectives has won the
battle. If the players have the same number of Victory Points and have
scored the same number of Victory Points from Secondary Objectives,
the result is a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Zone Breach
? Counter Assault
Primary Objectives
Take Control: At the start of each of the Defender’s Shooting Phases,
they gain +1 Victory Point for each Objective Marker they control. These
Victory Points are kept even if that Objective is lost later in the battle
and contribute to the Player’s Victory Points total at the end of the
battle.
At the start of each of the Attacker’s Shooting Phases, if a unit is
controlling an Objective, they can opt to either gain +1 Victory Point for
holding it, or choose to destroy it for +2 Victory Points. A unit which
opts to destroy an Objective cannot make Shooting Attacks or perform
any actions done in lieu of a Shooting Attack in the same Shooting
Phase. Victory Points gained from holding an Objective are kept even if
that Objective is lost later in the battle and contribute to the Player’s
Victory Points total at the end of the battle.
If an Objective Marker is destroyed, it can grant no more Victory Points
to either player, but any Victory Points it granted during the game to
either player are kept.
Secondary Objectives
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by either player during their
First Turn is worth an additional +1 Victory point to that player at the
end of the game.
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch Choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition*: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Before setting up the battle, players must determine Strategic
Advantage. The player with Strategic Advantage selects which player is
the Attacker and which player is the Defender.
REINFORCEMENT POINTS
Both players start with 8 Reinforcement Points. In this mission, the
Attacker cannot place units during deployment, and must instead assign
their units to Boarding Markers, as explained in the Mission Special
Rules. The Defender uses their Reinforcement Points to place units in
their own Deployment Zone as normal.
Any Reinforcement Points not used to place units in a player’s
Deployment Zone during deployment are retained.
Both players gain 3 Reinforcement Points at the end of each Game Turn,
in addition to any gained through mission Special Rules.
SETTING UP THE GAME
The Zone Mortalis Battlefield should be set up as per the rules found in
the Zone Mortalis section of the Campaigns in the Age of Darkness:
Siege of Cthonia book.
In this Mission, it is assumed the battlefield automatically has a ceiling.
In addition, unlike other Zone Mortalis missions, this mission requires a
board of at least 48” by 24” - with the stipulation that the board should
be at least 12” longer than it is wide. Access Points may not be placed on
the Attacker’s Board Edge.
33
ZONE BREACH
In a Mission using this Special Rule, the Attacker does not deploy
any of their units at the start of the game, and cannot use Access
Points as normal. Instead, before the game begins, they must
assign their units to Boarding Markers - representing boarding
torpedoes or assault drills. Each Boarding Marker is considered to
have a “Transport Capacity” of 16, which cannot be exceeded for
any reason, but can be shared by multiple different units so long as
they fit within the Transport Capacity (we recommend making use
of the changes to Automata, Dreadnoughts, and so on found in the
FAQs, Erratas, and Balance Changes found in the Liber Panoptica).
The Attacker may have as many Boarding Markers as they wish
(though a unit can only be assigned to a single such marker).
Rather than the normal process for determining a unit’s
Reinforcement Points cost, a Boarding Marker is always assumed
to have a Reinforcement Points cost of three, regardless of the
units assigned to it. At the start of each of the Attacker’s player
turns, they may pay three Reinforcement Points to place more
Boarding Markers, and may place as many in a single turn as they
have Reinforcement points to afford - these Boarding Markers are
placed following the process described below.
When the Attacker places a Boarding Marker, they must first
declare which Boarding Marker (and thus which assigned models)
are attempting to enter play. The Attacker then places the Marker
on their board edge, and scatters it. These Boarding Markers
always scatter the full distance rolled, but must remain on the
board edge - hence, if a scatter arrow is rolled facing in a direction
that is not clearly pointing either left or right, it should be treated
as a direct hit instead. If the Boarding Marker would stop in a place
which would prevent the models embarked within from
Disembarking, reduce the scatter distance by the smallest possible
amount to prevent this. Once the Boarding Marker’s final location
has been determined, all models declared as being assigned to it
must immediately enter play from the Boarding Marker’s final
position as though it was an Access Point.
Models moving on from a Boarding Marker are treated as having
Disembarked from a Vehicle with the Assault Vehicle Special Rule.
Once the nominated models have entered play from the Boarding
Marker, it is removed from play.
The Defender may not make use of Boarding Markers for their
Reserves to enter play.
48”
24”
Defender’s Deployment Zone 9”
Attacker’s Board Edge
COUNTER ASSAULT
When deploying units from Reinforcements, the Controlling
Player may choose to expend additional Reinforcement Points to
deploy units as a Counter Assault, as per the table that follows:
For the purposes of this mission, the Defending Player’s Board
Edges is determined to be the long board edge on their
Deployment Zone. Flank Edges are determined to be the short
Board Edges on either side of the table.
Battlefield Edge Reinforcement Points Cost
Attacker Defender
Controlling Player’s Edge Unavailable 0
Flank Edge Unavailable +1
Opposing Player’s Edge Unavailable Unavailable
34
LOCKDOWN
MISSION 5
Sometimes holding a key point is more than just defensive choke-points and runnels -
technological measures meaning the battlefield itself becomes a key player in the engagement.
DEPLOYMENT
Players must deploy units from their army up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, using the Deployment Zones
specified below, placing any remaining units into Reinforcements.
The battlefield is divided into four equal quadrants as shown in the
Deployment Map on the page opposite. The Defender’s Deployment
Zone is both within the Control Bunker, and all space within 9” of its
outside walls. The Defender may deploy within 9” of the centre of the
Battlefield, but the Attacker may not.
The Attacker then rolls a D6. On a roll of a 3 or higher, they may pick
any two quadrants to be their Deployment Zone - these quadrants must
be diagonally opposite each other. On a roll of a 1 or 2, the Defender
may choose two diagonally opposite quadrants for them. The Attacker
may not place any units anywhere within 9” of the centre of the board
or 12” of any of the Defender’s Units.
After setting up and deploying the armies, but before play begins, the
Defender places a single Objective Marker, inside the Control Bunker.
This is henceforth referred to as the ‘Control Bunker Objective’.
FIRST TURN
The player with Strategic Advantage takes the first turn, unless their
opponent successfully rolls for First Strike.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
The Zone Mortalis Mission: Lockdown represents the Players fighting
for control of a key point in a Zone Mortalis, the defender desperately
scrabbling to lock the attacker out or funnel them into their guns. At the
end of the battle, the Player who has scored the most Victory Points has
won the battle. If the players have the same number of Victory Points,
the Player who has control of the Control Bunker Objective has won the
battle. If neither player controls the Control Bunker Objective, the result
is a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? Control Node Bunker
? Counter Assault
Primary Objectives
Take the Control Bunker!: If a player has control of the Control Bunker
Objective at the end of the game, that player gains
+5 Victory points.
Secondary Objectives
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains
+1 Victory Point. If that Warlord was also a Primarch Choice, then an
additional +1 Victory Point is scored.
Attrition*: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy
units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
Last Man Standing*: The side with the greatest number of surviving
units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
*Note that the rewards for this Secondary Objective are intentionally greater than normal.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Before setting up the battle, players must determine Strategic
Advantage. The player with Strategic Advantage selects which player is
the Attacker and which player is the Defender.
REINFORCEMENT POINTS
The Defender starts with 9 Reinforcement Points, and the Attacker with
6, to place their units in their own Deployment Zones.
Any Reinforcement Points not used to place units in a player’s
Deployment Zone during deployment are retained.
The Attacker gains 4 Reinforcement Points at the end of each Game
Turn, whilst the Defender gains 2, in addition to any gained through
mission Special Rules.
SETTING UP THE GAME
The Zone Mortalis Battlefield should be set up as per the rules found in
the Zone Mortalis section of the Campaigns in the Age of Darkness:
Siege of Cthonia book.
In addition, unlike other Zone Mortalis missions, this mission requires a
Control Bunker to be be placed in the centre of the map, or as close as
possible (slightly offset from the centre is permissible). A Control Bunker
consists of four Columns, a single Standard Door, and seven Walls.
These should be laid out to create a small, square structure with a single
entry point (a Standard Door). No other Columns or Walls may be
placed touching this structure. A diagram is provided on the page
opposite.
35
CONTROL NODE BUNKER
At the start of the Controlling Player’s Shooting Phase, if they have
an Infantry unit within 1” of the Control Bunker Objective, then
instead of Shooting as normal the unit may choose to make use of
the Objective’s control panel. The Control Bunker Objective may
only have its control panel used once per player turn. The
Controlling Player may choose one of the following options when
they make use of the control panel:
? Close and lock any two non-destroyed doors anywhere
on the board
? Open (and Unlock, if applicable) any two non-destroyed doors
anywhere on the board
? Close all non-destroyed doors on the board
? Open (and Unlock, if applicable) all non-destroyed doors on
the board
When choosing any of these options, the Controlling Player must
roll a D6 - on a 2+ roll their chosen option takes immediate effect,
whilst on a roll of 1 nothing happens. If a door in this state is
closed whilst a unit is split across both sides of it, the unit must
attempt to regroup via the closest route - they must attempt to
break down the door! A model which finds itself standing with any
part of its base in contact with the door threshold when it closes in
this manner take an immediate Crushed hit, as described on page
173 of the Zone Mortalis Rules in the Siege of Cthonia Campaign
Book.
In a Mission with this Special Rule, no player may attempt to
perform a System Override.
Quadrant 1 Quadrant 2
Quadrant 3
Control
Bunker
9”
Quadrant 4
9”
48”
48”
*Not to scale
Column
Column
Wall Door
Wall Wall
Wall
Wall
Column
Column
Wall
Wall
Control
Bunker
Objective
Control Bunker*
COUNTER ASSAULT
When deploying units from Reinforcements, the Controlling
Player may choose to expend additional Reinforcement Points to
deploy units as a Counter Assault, as per the table that follows:
For the purposes of this mission, the Attacking Player’s Board
Edges are determined to be the board edges on the two sides of
their Deployment Quadrant. Flank Edges are determined to be the
Board Edges in Quadrants not used as Deployment Zones by either
player. The Defender does not have a Board Edge.
Battlefield Edge Reinforcement Points Cost
Attacker Defender
Controlling Player’s Edge +1 Unavailable
Flank Edge +1 +1
Opposing Player’s Edge Unavailable +2
36
VIP EXTRACTION
MISSION 6
Sometimes the closed confines of a Zone Mortalis held a more valuable cargo than mere war-materiel – whether dignitaries of newly compliant civilisations,
remembrancers, or negotiators, this mortal cargo could make the difference between control of whole sectors – and entire armies would be expended to
ensure their safe retrieval.
GAME LENGTH
After five turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 4+, a sixth and final turn is
played.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
The Zone Mortalis Mission: VIP Extraction represents the Defender
attempting to escort an essential member of mortal personnel to the
Extraction Point – whilst the Attacker attempts to capture or assassinate
them. At the end of any of the Attacker’s Turns, if the Defender has
managed to get their VIP to the Extraction Point, the game immediately
ends and the Defender is declared the winner. If the Attacker
successfully kills the VIP at any point, the game immediately ends and
the Attacker is declared the winner. If, at the end of the game, the VIP is
still alive but has not reached the extraction point, the game is declared
a draw.
MISSION SPECIALRULES
? The VIP
? Counter Assault
Primary Objectives
Evacuate the VIP: If the VIP reaches the Extraction Point (they must be
in base-to-base contact with the marker) at any point during the game,
the game ends immediately and the Defender wins.
If the VIP is slain at any point during the game, the game ends
immediately and the Attacker wins.
If the VIP does not reach the Extraction Point by the end of the game’s
final turn but is still alive, the game is a draw.
FIRST TURN
The player with Strategic Advantage takes the first turn, unless their
opponent successfully rolls for First Strike.
DEPLOYMENT
Players must deploy units from their army up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, placing any remaining units into
Reinforcements.
The battlefield is divided into four equal quadrants as shown in the
deployment map opposite. The Defender chooses one quadrant to be
their Deployment Zone and deploys units into it, up to the amount of
Reinforcement Points they start with, but not anywhere within 6” of the
centre of the board, placing any remaining units into Reinforcements.
The Attacker then rolls a D6. On a roll of a 3 or lower, the quadrant
opposite that of their opponent is their Deployment Zone. On a roll of a
4 or higher, they may choose any of the three remaining quadrants to be
their Deployment Zone. They must then deploy their units anywhere in
this area, up to the amount of Reinforcement Points they start with, but
not anywhere within 6” of the centre of the board, placing any
remaining units into Reinforcements.
After setting up and deploying the armies, but before play begins, the
Attacker must then finally place a single Objective Marker in the
quadrant diagonally opposite the Defender’s, at least 6” from any board
edge – this is the Extraction Point.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Before setting up the battle, players must determine Strategic
Advantage. The player with Strategic Advantage selects which player is
the Attacker and which player is the Defender.
REINFORCEMENT POINTS
Both players start with 6 Reinforcement Points to place units in their
own Deployment Zones.
Any Reinforcement Points not used to place units in a player’s
Deployment Zone during deployment are retained.
Both players gain 2 Reinforcement Points at the end of each Game Turn,
in addition to any gained through mission Special Rules.
SETTING UP THE GAME
The Zone Mortalis Battlefield should be set up as per the rules found in
the Zone Mortalis section of the Campaigns in the Age of Darkness:
Siege of Cthonia book.
37
THE VIP
The VIP is an individual who possesses key information on some
matter determined to perhaps be enough to change the tide of the
heresy.
The VIP has the following profile:
Unit Type:
Infantry (Character)
Wargear:
Laspistol
Refractor Field
Special Rules:
Independent Character
Protectorate: The VIP cannot be targeted by any attacks made
with the Precision Shots (X), Precision Strikes (X), or Sniper Special
Rules unless there are no other eligible targets in the unit. In
addition, you may not allocate wounds to the VIP at any time
unless there are no other eligible targets in the unit.
High Value Target: The VIP has the Hit & Run Special Rule, but
this is not conferred to any unit they join. This does allow them to
withdraw from combat and leave a unit they were previously
attached to still engaged in it, if they so choose.
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
VIP 7 3 3 3 3 1 3 1 6 4+
Quadrant 1 Quadrant 2
Quadrant 3 Quadrant 4
12”
48”
48”
COUNTER ASSAULT
When deploying units from Reinforcements, the Controlling
Player may choose to expend additional Reinforcement Points to
deploy units as a Counter Assault, as per the table that follows:
For the purposes of this mission, a Player’s Board Edges are
determined to be the board edges on the two sides of their
Deployment Quadrant. Flank Edges are determined to be the
Board Edges in Quadrants not used as Deployment Zones by either
player.
Battlefield Edge Reinforcement Points Cost
Attacker Defender
Controlling Player’s Edge 0 0
Flank Edge +1 +2
Opposing Player’s Edge +4 +2
ADDITIONAL GAME MODES FOR
THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Game Mode: Decurion
40
The Decurion Game Mode is an alternative game mode to the existing Game Modes presented in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core
Rulebook and other publications, and is designed to allow players to represent the smaller skirmishes between covert strike teams, lone survivors
banded together, and more.
Decurion places its emphasis on the desperate fights for survival that these groups would endure, allowing players to pick up small numbers of
models and get quick games running. Because of this, the way you construct forces for Decurion games differs greatly from other Game Modes.
We recommend games using the Decurion Game Mode are played with between 250 and 750 points, on a table between 2ft x 2ft and 3ft x 3ft in size.
The following effects must be adhered to whilst constructing a force to use with the Decurion Game Mode:
• You must construct your force using the Decurion Warband Force Organisation Chart.
• No models with the Unique Sub-type may be selected.
• All models are classed as Individuals, unless they are in Unit Coherency at the end of the Movement Phase – If they do this, they form an Ad-Hoc Unit.
• Ad-Hoc Units may also be formed during the Deployment of your force.
• Ad-Hoc Units may only contain models which are either Sworn Brothers (as per the Allies Matrix), which share the same Legiones Astartes (X)
Special Rule, or are otherwise selected from the same Faction and are intended to be part of the same Regiment / Cult / Taghmata, or similar.
(For simplicity’s sake, these are referred to as “Factions” from here on out.)
• Models in an Ad-Hoc Unit are treated as a single unit for the purposes of all rules, including Leadership tests, Movement, Shooting Attacks made
against them, and so on.
• For purposes of allies (via other players), Special Rules, or anything else that would require checking the Allies Matrix, your Warband is counted as
the Faction of your Hero.
• Only models in Base-to-Base contact during their Initiative Step may fight in the Assault Phase.
• All models with the Infantry Unit Type in a Warband are counted as having the Line Sub-type, unless the Faction those models are from is counted
as Distrusted Allies relative to your Hero’s Faction.
• No model may issue a Challenge.
• You may not select a model with a Legion Standard.
• No model with the Master of the Legion, Feudal Hierarchy, Cohort Doctrines, Tribune of the Golden Legion, or Path of Command Special Rule may
be selected. In addition, a Custodian Shield Captain may not be selected.
• No model with the Assassin, Abomination, or Mechanised Unit Sub-type may be selected.
• Imperialis Militia Heavy Ordnance Batteries may not be selected as part of a Decurion Warband. Imperialis Militia Field Gun Batteries gain the
Support Squad Special Rule if selected as part of a Decurion Warband.
• Any model with the Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule may only join or be joined by other models with the same variant of the Aspect Shrine (X) Special
Rule. The restrictions applied on the selection of units with the Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule are ignored when constructing a Decurion Warband.
• Models with the Chosen Warriors special rule are counted as having the Character Sub-type for purposes of being selected as a Leader or Hero model.
Such models do not count as characters for purposes of any options available to them, even when taken as a Leader or Hero.
GAMEMODE:DECURION
Wargear and Special Rules Selections
Some items of wargear or Special Rules specify they are able to be purchased for an entire squad at a fixed cost, for example a Legion Destroyer
Assault Squad being able to purchase Melta Bombs at +25 points, or a Phoenix Terminator unit being able to purchase the Surgical Augments for the
unit at +25 points. Instead of a paying this +25 points cost per model, instead, any option purchased in this manner must instead be purchased for
individual models from those units at a cost of +5 points per model.
Warlords in the Decurion Game Mode
When choosing your army, you must nominate your Hero model to be your Warlord. You may not choose a Warlord Trait for your warlord in games
with a maximum point limit of 500 points or less. In games of 501 points or more, each Warlord has one Warlord Trait chosen during army selections
from the list of Core Warlord Traits (see page 285 of the Core Rules) or another list made available as part of that model’s Allegiance or Army List.
41
DECURIONWARBAND CONSTRUCTION RULES
A Decurion Warband is not constructed via the normal Force Organisation method of selecting HQ, Troops, or other slot choices as normal.
Instead, to construct a Decurion Warband, you must instead purchase individual models as per the Decurion Warband Organisation Chart, rules,
and restrictions, as follows:
Heroes and Leaders
The Heroes and Leaders of your warband are those who have shaped it from a collection of individual desperate survivors into a capable fighting
force. The following process should be followed to select a Hero and Leaders:
• Only Infantry models may be selected.
• Heroes must have the Character Sub-type, and may have the Independent Character Special Rule.
• Leaders must have the Character Sub-type, but may not have the Independent Character Special Rule.
• The cost of a Hero or Leader is either their normal cost (if they are normally available to be purchased as a single model), or the cost of adding
additional models to the unit they are normally part of, with an additional +10 points (such as a Legion Tactical Sergeant, who would cost 20
points in this example).
• In a unit with no points per model cost (with the models themselves being eligible to be a Hero or Leader), divide the total points cost of the
unit by the number of models in the unit, rounding down to the nearest multiple of 5, then add an additional +10 points. This is the cost per
model to purchase these models as Heroes or Leaders.
Troopers
The Troopers of your warband are those who refuse to give up or give in; resilient even among the battered and beaten fighters of the Horus Heresy
– for against even utterly overwhelming odds, they simply refused to lay down and die. The following process should be followed to select Troopers:
• Only Infantry models may be selected.
• Troopers may not have the Character Sub-type or the Independent Character Special Rule.
• The cost of a Trooper is the cost of adding additional models to the unit they are normally part of.
• In a unit with no points per model cost, divide the total points cost of the unit by the number of models in the unit, rounding down to the
nearest multiple of 5. This is the cost per model to purchase these models as Troopers.
• Any upgrade which is normally set as one per X models still requires that number of models to be part of your Warband – meaning in order to
equip one Legion Veteran with a Flamer, you’d need to ensure your Warband contained five Legion Veterans.
• Any upgrade which is normally set as one per squad is instead restricted to one per Warband.
• Any Trooper with a 2+ Armour Save Characteristic instead has a 3+ Armour Save in this game mode – their armour is degraded beyond its
normal protections as a result of their ongoing fighting, and is not at full effectiveness!
Artillery in the Decurion Game Mode
Some units across various army lists broadly fit into a classification of “artillery”. These units would be typically rare in smaller skirmish battles, but in
some rare cases would crop up - whether recovered by one side and brought to bear against the other, or utilised in a small strike force to deadly
effect. Rules for including these are as below:
• Rapier Carriers may be selected as part of a Legion Warband. If selected, then two Legion Gunners models are also included as part of the same
Force Organisation slot. No model with the Legion Artillerists Special Rule may join or be joined by a friendly model without the Legion
Artillerists Special Rule. Legion Gunners may not be selected as part of a Legion Warband except as part of a Rapier Carrier.
• Rapier Carriers may be selected as part of a Solar Auxilia Warband. If selected, then two Auxilia Gunners models are also included as part of the
same Force Organisation slot. No model with the Auxilia Artillerists Special Rule may join or be joined by a friendly model without the Auxilia
Artillerists Special Rule. Auxilia Gunners may not be selected as part of a Solar Auxilia Warband except as part of a Rapier Carrier.
• Rapier Carriers may be selected as part of an Imperialis Militia Warband. If selected, then two Militia Gunners models are also included as part
of the same Force Organisation slot. No model with the Militia Artillerists Special Rule may join or be joined by a friendly model without the
Militia Artillerists Special Rule. Militia Gunners may not be selected as part of an Imperialis Militia Warband except as part of a Rapier Carrier.
• Vaul’s Wrath Support Batteries may be selected as part of an Asuryani Warband. If selected, then two Guardian Crew models are also included
as part of the same Force Organisation slot. No model with the Guardian Artillerists Special Rule may join or be joined by a friendly model
without the Guardian Artillerists Special Rule. Guardian Crew models may not be selected as part of an Asuryani Warband except as part of a
Vaul’s Wrath Support Battery.
Tercios and Strength in Numbers in the Decurion Game Mode
The mortal factions in the Age of Darkness frequently appear in numbers an order of magnitude above that of the Legiones Astartes. To represent
these teeming multitudes, the following rules apply:
• Any model with the Infantry Type that has the Tercio Special Rule, replaces that Special Rule with the Decurion Tercio Special Rule:
Decurion Tercio: When included as a Trooper model in a Decurion Warband, up to two additional identical models may be purchased. These
models occupy the same Force Organisation Chart slot as the first and must be deployed in coherency (including as part of an Ad-Hoc unit
with other models). However, they are treated as individuals once the game begins.
• Any model with the Infantry Type that has the Strength in Numbers Special Rule, replaces that Special Rule with the Scattered Survivors
Special Rule:
Scattered Survivors: When included as a Trooper model in a Decurion Warband, up to three additional identical models may be purchased.
These models occupy the same Force Organisation Chart slot as the first and must be deployed in coherency (including as part of an Ad-Hoc
unit with other models). However, they are treated as individuals once the game begins.
42
Decurion Warband Force Organisation Chart
The Decurion Warband Force Organisation Chart is presented below. In a game using the Decurion Game Mode, the Compulsory and Optional
choices for your force are as follows:
Compulsory
• 1 Hero
• 9 Troopers
Optional
• +2 Leaders
• +9 Troopers
Hero
Troopers Troopers Troopers
Leader Leader
Pursuit Beasts and Beastmasters in the Decurion Game Mode
The varied and ferocious beasts hounded into battle by various factions in the Age of Darkness can be deadly in smaller confrontations where escape
or evasion of them proves difficult. When fielded in the Decurion Game Mode, the following rules apply:
• For each model with the Pursuit Beasts and Silent Sisterhood (X) Special Rule included in a Decurion Warband, a single Pursuit Beast may be
purchased for the cost listed on page 58 of Liber Imperium. This Pursuit Beast shares the same Force Organisation slot as the model that
purchased it, and must be deployed in coherency with that model. If possible, a Pursuit Beast must always remain in coherency with at least
one model with the Pursuit Beast and Silent Sisterhood (X) Special Rule.
• For each model with the Beastmasters Special Rule and Militia Sub-type included in a Decurion Warband, a single War Beast may be purchased
for the cost listed on page 28 of the Imperialis Militia pdf. This War Beast shares the same Force Organisation slot as the model that purchased
it, and must be deployed in coherency with that model. If possible, a War Beast must always remain in coherency with at least one model with
the Beastmasters Special Rule and Militia Subtype. A model with the Beastmasters Special Rule may not join or be joined by any other that is
not a War Beast or that has the Beastmasters Special Rule.
43
REACTIONS IN THEDECURION GAMEMODE
When making reactions in a Decurion battle, an army may not choose to use any of the Core Reactions presented in the Core Rules, nor any army
list specific Advanced Reactions. Instead, all armies, regardless of Faction or size, may only choose to use any or all of the Decurion Reactions
presented in this supplement during a Decurion battle.
Base Reaction Allotment, Additional Reactions, and Reaction Limits in Decurion:
In Decurion battles, any player may make one (1) Reaction in each phase of their opponent’s turn. This number may not be increased in any way.
Regardless of any modifications to a player’s Reaction Allotment or special rules granting additional reactions, the Reactive Player may never make
more than one (1) Reaction in any given phase.
Decurion Reactions:
During a Decurion battle, the following Reactions are available to all armies regardless of maximum points limit or Faction. These reactions are only
available in Decurion battles.
Movement Phase Reactions:
During the Movement Phase, the Reactive Player may declare a reaction if an enemy unit ends a move within 12” and in line of sight of a friendly
unit. Once the Active Player has fully resolved the movement of their unit, the Reactive Player may choose to expend their Reaction in that Phase in
order to have the unit they control that is within 12” and line of sight perform a Contact! Reaction.
Contact!: The Reacting unit may make a Shooting Attack, targeting the unit that triggered this Reaction and following all the usual rules for Shooting
Attacks. A unit that makes a Shooting Attack as part of a Contact! Reaction may not make any attacks indirectly (without line of sight). All Shooting Attacks
made as part of a Contact! Reaction are Snap Shots, with the exception of Template Weapons. Note that this prevents models from making attacks with the
Blast(X) special rule as part of this Reaction. Template Weapons may only be used as part of a Contact! Reaction if the target unit is within 8” and must use
the Wall of Death rule instead of firing normally. Models in the Reacting unit count as Stationary during this Shooting Attack, even if they moved in the
previous Movement phase.
Shooting Phase Reactions:
During the Shooting phase, the Reactive player may react when any enemy unit declares a Shooting Attack targeting a unit they control. Before the
Active player resolves the Shooting Attack, the Reactive player may choose to expend their Reaction in that Phase to have the unit targeted by the
Shooting Attack perform either a Go to Ground! Reaction or a Reposition! Reaction.
Go to Ground!: All models in the Reacting unit gain a 5+ Go to Ground save against all Wounds inflicted as part of the Shooting Attack that triggered this
Reaction. A Go to Ground save is counted as a Cover Save which cannot be mitigated by the Ignores Cover Special Rule.
Reposition!: Each model in the Reacting unit may move a number of inches up to its unmodified Initiative Characteristic. When resolving the Shooting
Attack that triggered this Reaction, all range and line of sight is measured to the Reacting unit’s new position. If, as a result of this movement, no models in the
reacting unit are within range or line of sight of any models in the triggering unit, the Active player cannot choose a new target for their Shooting Attack.
Assault Phase Reactions:
During the Assault phase, the Reactive player may react when any enemy unit declares a Charge targeting a unit they control. Before the Active
player has resolved any Charge Rolls, the Reactive player may choose to expend their Reaction in that Phase to have the unit targeted by the Charge
perform a Hold Fast! Reaction.
Hold Fast!: The Reacting unit must make a Morale check. If the Check is failed, the Reacting unit immediately Falls Back 1d6” and automatically regroups
when this Fall Back Move is completed. If the Check is successful, the Reacting unit automatically passes any Morale checks they are required to make as a
result of losing an assault during the following Fight sub-phase.
44
MISSIONS IN THEDECURION GAMEMODE
When playing a game using the Decurion Game Mode, instead of using a mission from the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook or one
presented in the Liber Panoptica, you should instead use the below process to generate and play a mission with custom Mission Objectives. It is
assumed that no matter the Mission Objectives rolled, the Night Fighting Mission Special Rule is used.
Determine Mission Objectives
The Mission Objectives presented below are designed to work with both progressive scoring (meaning they are scored at the beginning of each
player’s game turn), and post-game scoring (meaning they are scored at the end of the game). Players should agree with their opponent which type of
scoring they wish to use before the game begins, or if both players agree, they can be scored both at the start of each player’s turn, and at the end of
the game.
To determine a Mission Objective, first roll a D6, and consult the below Mission Type chart to see which type of mission you will be playing. In
games of 600 points or larger, roll 2D6 instead, and use both results separately to generate a second Mission Objective:
Seize & Secure: After Deployment and pre-game moves, but before the game begins, the players must take turns placing a total of 4 Objective Markers on the
board, with the Defender placing the first. These may not be placed in either player’s Deployment Zones, or within 6” of a board edge or each other. These
Objective Markers award +1 Victory Point each to the player that controls them at the end of each turn, and / or the end of the game.
Run Them Down!: Each Scoring model which is wholly within the Opponent’s Deployment Zone awards the Controlling Player +2 Victory Points. These
points are awarded either at the end of each turn, and / or the end of the game.
Lynchpin: After Deployment and pre-game moves, but before the game begins, place a single Objective Marker at the centre of the board. This Objective
Marker awards +1 Victory Point to the player that controls it at the end of each turn, and / or the end of the game.
Domination: After Deployment and pre-game moves, but before the game begins, divide the table into four equal quadrants. For each quadrant which you
have more Scoring units in than your Opponent, you gain +1 Victory Point at the end of each turn, and / or the end of the game.
Blood Tithe: Any Trooper Choice slain by either player during the game is worth an additional +1 Victory point to that player, whilst any Leader Choice slain
by either player during the game is worth an additional +2 Victory points to that player, and any Hero Choice slain by either player during the game is worth
an additional +3 Victory point to that player. This Mission Objective can only be scored at the end of the game.
Overrun: If you have more Scoring models in than your own Deployment Zone than the Opposing Player Does, you gain +1 Victory Point. If you have more
Scoring models in no man’s land than the Opposing Player Does, you gain +2 Victory Points. If you have more Scoring models in than your Opponent’s
Deployment Zone than the Opposing Player Does, you gain +3 Victory Points. These Victory Points are awarded either at the end of each turn, and / or the end
of the game.
Determine Deployment Map
Once you have ascertained your Mission Objective(s), roll a D3 and consult the below chart to see which Deployment Map you should use - these can
be found in the Deployment Maps in the Decurion Game Mode section:
D3 Deployment Map
1 Recovery Raid
2 Breaking Blow
3 Rearguard Assault
D6 Mission Type
1 Seize & Secure
2 Run Them Down!
3 Lynchpin
4 Domination
5 Blood Tithe
6 Overrun
45
Determine Attacker and Defender
The players should roll off to determine who will be the Attacker and Defender. The player who wins the roll-off may choose either role.
Determine Night Fighting
The players should roll off or otherwise agree whether Night Fighting is in effect. Note that, in contrast with the normal Night Fighting rules, Night
Fighting is only in effect on a D6 roll of a 4+, unless both players agree to have it in play.
Deployment
The player with the role of Attacker should select their Deployment Zone and then deploy their entire force, including any Fortifications they
possess, except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in Reserve,
into their Deployment Zone.
Place Objective Markers
If a Mission Objective which uses Objective Markers was rolled, these should be placed onto the board now.
First Turn
The Attacker has the first turn, unless their opponent can Seize the Initiative.
Game Length
After four turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 3+, a fifth is played. If a fifth turn is played, at the end of the fifth turn, roll a D6. On the roll of a 5+, a sixth
and final turn is played.
Victory Conditions
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory Points has won the game. If the players have the same number of Victory Points,
the player who has scored the most Victory Points as a result of Secondary Objectives wins the game. If both players have scored the same number of
Victory Points due to Secondary Objectives, the game ends in a draw. Note that for this Game Mode, the effects of the Sudden Death Victory
stipulation are ignored - therefore, it is required to tally up Victory Points to determine a winner, even if one player has no models remaining.
46
Attacker’s
Deployment Zone
Defender’s
Deployment Zone
No Man’s Land
No Man’s Land
12”
48”
48”
Attacker’s
Deployment Zone
Defender’s
Deployment Zone
No Man’s Land
12”
12”
48”
48”
Attacker’s
Deployment Zone
Defender’s
Deployment Zone
No Man’s Land
48”
48”
12”
12”
Rather than using the Deployment Maps found in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook or one presented in the Liber Panoptica, you
should instead use the below process to generate an appropriate Deployment Map for a game using the Decurion Game Mode.
1. Recovery Raid
The Recovery Raid Deployment Map divides the battlefield into four
equal quarters. Each quarter constitutes a Deployment Zone. Units may
not be deployed into the circular 12" diameter area at the centre of the
battlefield.
A player’s battlefield edges are any table edges that form part of their
Deployment Zone.
2. Breaking Blow
The Breaking Blow Deployment Map divides the battlefield into two
equal halves across its length. Each player’s Deployment Zone is a 12”
wide strip across one of these halves.
A player’s battlefield edge is the long battlefield edge touching their own
Deployment Zone.
3. Rearguard Assault
The Rearguard Assault Deployment Map divides the battlefield into two
equal halves across the diagonal axis. Each player’s Deployment Zone is a
triangle, with each side being 12” across.
A player’s battlefield edges are any table edges that form part of their
Deployment Zone.
DEPLOYMENTMAPS FOR THEDECURION GAMEMODE
47
ADDITIONAL GAME MODES FOR
THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Game Mode: Centurion
50
The Centurion Game Mode is an expansion of the existing Narrative, Campaign, and Matched Play Game Modes presented in the Horus Heresy:
Age of Darkness Core Rulebook and other publications, designed to present a different and engaging challenge for all players.
Centurion places its emphasis on the smaller battles of the Heresy – covert raids, key strikes, or ongoing skirmishes between lightly armed forces are
its purview. Because of this, there are several limitations and restrictions on the choices permitted in Centurion games.
We recommend games using the Centurion Game Mode are played with between 500 and 1500 points, on a table at least 4ft x 4ft in size.
The following effects must be adhered to whilst constructing an army to use with the Centurion Game Mode:
• You must use the Incursio Force Organisation Chart, and may not select an Allied Detachment, nor any optional detachments.
• Legiones Astartes armies may only use the Rites of War found in the Centurion Rites of War Section – no other Rites of War are permitted.
• Mechanicum armies may use the War-Covenants found in the Centurion War-Covenants Section.
• Solar Auxilia armies may use the Cohort Doctrines found in the Centurion Cohort Doctrines Section.
• Asuryani armies may use the World-Runes found in the Centurion World-Runes Section – no other World-Runes are permitted.
• Legio Custodes armies are not permitted to select a Chamber of the Golden Host.
• No models with the Vehicle Unit Type may be selected - with the exception of Legion Rhino Transports, Skorpius Duneriders, Kharon Pattern
Acquisitors, Silent Sisterhood Rhino Transport, Aurox Transports, Solar Auxilia Chimera Transport, Imperialis Militia Chimera Transport,
and Wave Serpents - which may be selected by any unit normally able to purchase them.
• No model with the Master of the Legion, Feudal Hierarchy, Cohort Doctrines, Tribune of the Golden Legion, or Path of Command Special
Rule may be selected. In addition, only a single Custodian Shield Captain (of any variant) may be selected.
• No model with the Assassin or Abomination Unit Sub-type may be selected.
• Any unit with the Dreadnought or Automata Unit Type, or the Artillery, Mechanised, or Grav-Platform Sub-type, may not expand their unit
beyond its starting size.
• You may only select a maximum of 1 Wound’s worth of models with a Toughness Characteristic of 6 or 7 for each full 125 points in your army –
the points cost of models selected in this way is counted toward your army total. In this way, in an army of 1250 points, you could select a total
of 10 Wounds worth of Toughness 6 models – thus, up to two Legion Castra Ferrum Dreadnoughts could be selected.
• You may not select models with a Toughness Characteristic of 8 or higher.
Warlords in the Centurion Game Mode
When choosing your army, you must nominate one model to be your Warlord, following the guidelines presented on page 284 of the Core Rules. You
may not choose a Warlord Trait for your warlord in games with a maximum point limit of 500 points or less. In games of 501 points or more, each
Warlord has one Warlord Trait chosen during army selections from the list of Core Warlord Traits (see page 285 of the Core Rules) or another list
made available as part of that model’s Allegiance or Army List.
GAMEMODE:CENTURION
INCURSIO FORCE ORGANISATION CHART
The Incursio Force Organisation Chart is presented below. In a game using the Centurion Game Mode, the Compulsory and Optional choices for
your force are as follows:
Compulsory
• 1 HQ
• 2 Troops
Optional
• +1 HQ
• +2 Troops
• +2 Elites
• +2 Fast Attack
• +2 Heavy Support
Troops Elites Fast Attack Heavy Support
HQ
Troops
51
REACTIONS IN THECENTURION GAMEMODE
When making reactions in a Centurion battle, an army may not choose to use any of the Core Reactions presented in the Core Rules, nor any army
list specific Advanced Reactions. Instead, all armies, regardless of Faction or size, may only choose to use any or all of the Centurion Reactions
presented in this supplement during a Centurion battle.
Base Reaction Allotment, Additional Reactions, and Reaction Limits in Centurion:
In Centurion battles of 1000 points or fewer per player, any player may make one (1) Reaction in each phase of their opponent’s turn. This number
may not be increased in any way. Regardless of any modifications to a player’s Reaction Allotment or special rules granting additional reactions, the
Reactive Player may never make more than one (1) Reaction in any given phase.
In Centurion battles of 1001+ points or more per player, this restriction is removed.
Centurion Reactions:
During a Centurion battle, the following Reactions are available to all armies regardless of maximum points limit or Faction. These reactions are only
available in Centurion battles.
Movement Phase Reactions:
During the Movement Phase, the Reactive Player may declare a reaction if an enemy unit ends a move within 12” and in line of sight of a friendly
unit. Once the Active Player has fully resolved the movement of their unit, the Reactive Player may choose to expend their Reaction in that Phase in
order to have the unit they control that is within 12” and line of sight perform a Contact! Reaction.
Contact!: The Reacting unit may make a Shooting Attack, targeting the unit that triggered this Reaction and following all the usual rules for Shooting
Attacks. A unit that makes a Shooting Attack as part of a Contact! Reaction may not make any attacks indirectly (without line of sight). All Shooting Attacks
made as part of a Contact! Reaction are Snap Shots, with the exception of Template Weapons. Note that this prevents models from making attacks with the
Blast(X) special rule as part of this Reaction. Template Weapons may only be used as part of a Contact! Reaction if the target unit is within 8” and must use
the Wall of Death rule instead of firing normally. Models in the Reacting unit count as Stationary during this Shooting Attack, even if they moved in the
previous Movement phase.
Shooting Phase Reactions:
During the Shooting phase, the Reactive player may react when any enemy unit declares a Shooting Attack targeting a unit they control. Before the
Active player resolves the Shooting Attack, the Reactive player may choose to expend their Reaction in that Phase to have the unit targeted by the
Shooting Attack perform either a Go to Ground! Reaction or a Reposition! Reaction.
Go to Ground!: All models in the Reacting unit gain a 5+ Go to Ground save against all Wounds inflicted as part of the Shooting Attack that triggered this
Reaction. A Go to Ground save is counted as a Cover Save which cannot be mitigated by the Ignores Cover Special Rule.
Reposition!: Each model in the Reacting unit may move a number of inches up to its unmodified Initiative Characteristic. When resolving the Shooting
Attack that triggered this Reaction, all range and line of sight is measured to the Reacting unit’s new position. If, as a result of this movement, no models in the
reacting unit are within range or line of sight of any models in the triggering unit, the Active player cannot choose a new target for their Shooting Attack.
Assault Phase Reactions:
During the Assault phase, the Reactive player may react when any enemy unit declares a Charge targeting a unit they control. Before the Active
player has resolved any Charge Rolls, the Reactive player may choose to expend their Reaction in that Phase to have the unit targeted by the Charge
perform a Hold Fast! Reaction.
Hold Fast!: The Reacting unit must make a Morale check. If the Check is failed, the Reacting unit immediately Falls Back 1d6” and automatically regroups
when this Fall Back Move is completed. If the Check is successful, the Reacting unit automatically passes any Morale checks they are required to make as a
result of losing an assault during the following Fight sub-phase.
52
MISSIONS IN THECENTURION GAMEMODE
When playing a game using the Centurion Game Mode, instead of using a mission from the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook or one
presented in the Liber Panoptica, you can instead use the below process to generate and play a mission with custom Primary and Secondary
Objectives. It is assumed that no matter the Primary or Secondary Objectives rolled, the Night Fighting and Reserves Mission Special Rules are used.
Determine Primary Objective
To determine a Primary Objective, first roll a D6, and consult the below Mission Type chart to see which type of mission you will be playing. In
games of 1500 points or larger, roll 2D6 instead, and use both results separately to generate a second Primary Objective:
Once you have ascertained your mission type(s), consult the below charts, rolling a D3 against the relevant table(s) to see what your Primary
Objective(s) will be:
Deadly Ground: After Deployment and pre-game moves, but before the game begins, the Defender must place 3 Objective Markers on the board. One must be
at the centre of the table, whilst the others must be placed, one each, into each player’s Deployment Zone. Each Objective Marker awards +1 Victory Point to
the player that controls it at the start of that player’s turn.
Denial: After Deployment and pre-game moves, but before the game begins, a single Objective Marker is placed at the centre of the board. This Objective
Marker awards +5 Victory Points to the player that controls it at the end of the game.
Seize & Secure: After Deployment and pre-game moves, but before the game begins, the Defender must place 3 Objective Markers on the board, and the
Attacker places 1 Objective Marker. These may not be placed in either player’s Deployment Zones. These Objective Markers award +2 Victory Points each to the
player that controls them at the end of the game.
Run Them Down!: At the end of the game, each Scoring unit which is wholly within the Opponent’s Deployment Zone awards the Controlling Player +2
Victory Points. Each Denial unit which is wholly within the Opponent’s Deployment Zone awards the Controlling Player +1 Victory Point.
Domination: At the end of the game, divide the table into four equal quadrants. For each quadrant which you have more Scoring units in than your
Opponent, you gain +3 Victory Points.
Desperate Breakout: At the end of the game, the Defender gains +1 Victory Point for each unit they control which is outside of any player’s Deployment Zone,
and +2 Victory Points for each unit they control which is in the Attacker’s Deployment Zone. The Attacker gains +2 Victory Points for each of the Defender’s
units which has been completely destroyed.
Contest of Champions: At any point during the game, if a player’s Warlord successfully slays the Opposing Player’s Warlord by any means, then the
Controlling Player is awarded +5 Victory Points.
VIP: Before the game begins, the Defender must nominate a single model in their army with the Character Sub-type. If that model is slain at any point during
the game, the Attacker gains +5 Victory Points. If they are still in play at the end of the game, the Defender gains +5 Victory Points.
Blood Tithe: Any unit slain awards the Opposing Player +1 Victory Point, in addition to any others it may award for any other reason.
D6 Mission Type
1-3 Tactical Raid
4-5 War for Territory
6 Annihilation
D3 Tactical Raid - Primary Objectives
1 Deadly Ground
2 Denial
3 Seize & Secure
D3 War for Territory - Primary Objectives
1 Run Them Down!
2 Domination
3 Desperate Breakout
D3 Annihiliation - Primary Objectives
1 Contest of Champions
2 VIP
3 Blood Tithe
53
Determine Secondary Objectives
To determine Secondary Objectives, roll 2D6, and consult the below Secondary Objectives chart to see which Secondary Objectives will be in effect
during the game. Each D6 rolled corresponds to one of the below Secondary Objectives:
Attrition: The army which has destroyed the highest number of enemy units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
Last Man Standing: The side with the greatest number of surviving units at the end of the game gains +D3 Victory Points.
Slay the Warlord: If a side destroyed the enemy Warlord, that side gains +1 Victory Point.
Overrun: Any unit slain by either player by a Sweeping Advance is worth an additional +1 Victory point to that player at the end of the game..
Demonstration of Power: Any model slain by either player during a Challenge is worth an additional +1 Victory point to that player at the end of the game.
First Strike: Any unit completely destroyed by either player during their First Turn is worth an additional +1 Victory point to that player at the end of
the game.
Determine Deployment Map
The players should roll to determine which Deployment Map from the Core Rulebook should be used.
Determine Attacker and Defender
The players should roll off to determine who will be the Attacker and Defender. The player who wins the roll-off may choose either role.
Determine Night Fighting
The players should roll off or otherwise agree whether Night Fighting is in effect.
Deployment
The player with the role of Attacker should select their Deployment Zone and then deploy their entire force, including any Fortifications they
possess, except for any units held in Reserve, into their Deployment Zone.
The player who is deploying second then deploys their entire force, including any Fortifications they possess, except for any units placed in Reserve,
into their Deployment Zone.
Place Objective Markers
If a Primary Objective which uses Objective Markers was rolled, these should be placed onto the board now.
First Turn
The Attacker has the first turn, unless their opponent can Seize the Initiative.
Game Length
After four turns, roll a D6. On the roll of a 3+, a fifth is played. If a fifth turn is played, at the end of the fifth turn, roll a D6. On the roll of a 5+, a sixth
and final turn is played.
Victory Conditions
At the end of the game, the player who has scored the most Victory Points has won the game. If the players have the same number of Victory Points,
the player who has scored the most Victory Points as a result of Secondary Objectives wins the game. If both players have scored the same number of
Victory Points due to Secondary Objectives, the game ends in a draw.
D6 Mission Type
1 Attrition
2 Last Man Standing
3 Slay the Warlord
4 Overrun
5 Demonstration of Power
6 First Strike
54
You may use any of the following Centurion Rites of War in a Legiones Astartes army without having a model with the Master of the Legion Special
Rule. These Rites of War are only to be used with the Incursio Force Organisation Chart.
Centurion Rite of War: Ambush Contingent
Effects
• All models with the Scout or Infiltrate Special Rules gain the Shrouded (6+) Special Rule, or a +1 to the Shrouded Special Rule if they already
have it, during the first Game Turn.
• You may re-roll the dice to determine who gets the first turn, and re-roll an attempt to Seize the Initiative.
• Rather than rolling to see if Night Fighting is in effect, the Controlling Player of this Army may choose if the Night Fighting Special Rule is in
effect or not. If both Players have this effect, use the regular Night Fighting Rules instead.
• Legion Scout Squads or Legion Reconnaissance Squads do not have the Support Squad Special Rule.
Limitations
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Scout Squads or Legion Reconnaissance Squads.
• No model equipped with any variant of Legion Terminator Armour may be selected in a Detachment using this Rite of War.
• No Infantry model with the Heavy or Artillery Sub-types may be selected in a Detachment using this Rite of War.
• A Legion Centurion with the Vigilator or Pathfinder Legiones Consularis Upgrade must be taken as the Compulsory HQ choice for a
Detachment using this Rite of War.
Centurion Rite of War: Ravager Warband
Effects
• A unit equipped with any pattern of Jump Pack in a detachment using this Rite of War may re-roll the dice to determine their charge distance -
but must accept the second result, even if it is worse.
• A unit equipped with any pattern of Jump Pack in a detachment using this Rite of War which deploys via Deep Strike gains the Shrouded (5+)
Special Rule on the turn it arrives.
• Legion Veteran Assault Squads gain the Line Sub-type in a detachment using this Rite of War.
Limitations
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Assault Squads.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, at least one Legion Assault Support Squad must be taken as a non-Compulsory Troops Choice.
• A model equipped with any pattern of jump pack must be taken as the Compulsory HQ choice for a Detachment using this Rite of War.
Centurion Rite of War: Tactical Strike Force
Effects
• All models in a detachment using this Rite of War equipped with a Bolter (including those armed with Specialist Ammunition such as Asphyx
or Shrapnel, etc) may use the Fury of the Legion Special Rule, even if they would not normally be able to do so.
• All Legion Tactical Support Squad units in a detachment using this Rite of War gain the Heart of the Legion Special Rule.
• Any model in a detachment using this Rite of War which benefits from the Heart of the Legion Special Rule gains the Feel No Pain (5+) Special
Rule, instead of Feel No Pain (6+) Special Rule. The Feel No Pain (5+) cannot be improved by any source.
Limitations
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Tactical Squads.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, at least one Legion Tactical Support Squad must be taken as a Troops Choice.
• A Detachment using this Rite of War must take a model with the Independent Character Special Rule which is not equipped with any pattern
of Jump Pack, Terminator Armour, Bike, or Jetbike as a Compulsory HQ choice.
Centurion Rite of War: Blooded Veterans
Effects
• Legion Veteran Squads may be taken as Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War.
• Legion Veteran Squads taken as Compulsory Troops Choices gain the Line Sub-type.
• Legion Veteran Assault Squads may be taken as non-Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War.
• Whilst constructing your army, you may choose to give each Legion Veteran Squad and Legion Veteran Assault Squad in a detachment using this
Rite of War either the Precision Strikes (6+) or Precision Shots (6+) Special Rules.
Limitations
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Veteran Squads.
• If all Legion Veteran Squads taken in a detachment using this Rite of War are removed from play, the Opposing Player gains an additional Victory
Point.
• A Detachment using this Rite of War must take a Legion Centurion with the Champion Legiones Consularis upgrade as a Compulsory HQ choice.
• If a Legion Centurion with the Champion Legiones Consularis upgrade taken in a detachment using this Rite of War is removed from play, the
Opposing Player gains an additional Victory Point.
CENTURION RITES OFWAR
55
Centurion Rite of War: Destroyer Conclave
Effects
• Any model which may take a Havoc Launcher in a detachment using this Rite of War may instead take a Phosphex Discharger for +20 points.
• Any unit which has any models equipped with a Missile Launcher in a detachment using this Rite of War may purchase Rad Missiles in
addition to their normal ammunition types for +10 points per model.
• Legion Destroyer Assault Squads and Legion Destroyer Mortalis Squads may be taken as Troops Choices in a detachment using this
Rite of War.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, Legion Destroyer Assault Squads and Legion Destroyer Mortalis Squads may act as a Denial unit as
long as they are within 6” of an Objective, instead of the usual 3”.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this Rite of War must take a Legion Centurion with the Siege Breaker or Moritat Legiones Consularis upgrade as a
Compulsory HQ choice.
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Destroyer Assault Squads or Legion Destroyer
Mortalis Squads.
Centurion Rite of War: Command Brigade
Effects
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, the effect range of the Legion Standard wargear is increased to 12”.
• Any unit equipped with a Nuncio-Vox in a detachment using this Rite of War may benefit from the effects of the Cognis Signum carried by a
Master of Signals – though this bonus can only be claimed by one unit per turn.
• A Legion Command Squad may be taken for any Centurion in a detachment using this Rite of War.
Limitations
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, the Warlord must be a Legion Centurion with the Delegatus Legiones Consularis upgrade.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War you must select a Legion Command Squad, of which the Delegatus must be the Leader.
• A Legion Centurion with the Master of Signals Legiones Consularis upgrade must be selected as part of a detachment using this Rite of War.
This Centurion occupies the same Force Organisation Slot as the Delegatus, and must be attached to the Command Squad including the
Delegatus.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, when a Legion Command Squad or model with the Independent Character Special Rule is removed
from play, the Opposing Player gains an additional Victory Point.
Centurion Rite of War: Breacher Shieldwall
Effects
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, any model armed with a Boarding Shield in unit coherency with at least two other models also
equipped with Boarding Shields may re-roll Invulnerable Saves of 1.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, any model armed with a Boarding Shield in base-to-base contact with at least two other models also
equipped with Boarding Shields count their Weapon Skill as +1 whilst any model attempts to hit them in close combat.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, Legion Breacher Squads gain the Relentless Special Rule.
• Legion Tactical Support Squads may be equipped with Boarding Shields for +5 points per model. (If this upgrade is selected, the whole squad
must be so upgraded). Any units upgraded in this manner gain the Heavy Sub-type.
Limitations
• A model equipped with a Boarding Shield must be taken as the Compulsory HQ choice for a Detachment using this Rite of War.
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Breacher Squads.
• A Detachment using this Rite of War must take at least one Legion Tactical Support Squad, and this squad must be equipped with Boarding
Shields.
Centurion Rite of War: Seeker Cadre
Effects
• Legion Seeker Squads may be taken as Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War.
• All units in a detachment using this Rite of War gain the Preferred Enemy (Warlord) Special Rule.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, if you successfully slay the enemy Warlord, you gain an additional Victory Point.
Limitations
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, if you do not successfully slay the enemy Warlord, the Opposing Player an additional Victory Point.
• All Compulsory Troops Choices in a detachment using this Rite of War must be Legion Seeker Squads.
• In a detachment using this Rite of War, all models equipped with any variant of Terminator Armour, with the Artillery Sub-type, or with the
Vehicle Unit Type must begin the game in Reserve.
56
You may use any of the following Centurion War-Covenants in a Mechanicum army.These War-Covenants are only to be used with the
Incursio Force Organisation Chart.
A Detachment which uses a Centurion War-Covenant may only select a single model with The Lesser Orders of the Techno-Arcana Special Rule -
rules for The Lesser Orders of Techno-Arcana can be found in Liber Ingenium.
Centurion War-Covenant: Lachrimallion Flesh-Hordes
Effects
• A model with the Lachrimallion Lesser Techo-Arcana in a Detachment using this War-Covenant gains the Vicarious Vivisectionist Special Rule.
• Adsecularis Tech-Thralls Covenants and Adsecularis Tech-Thralls Certus Covenants taken as Compulsory Troops may be upgraded to have a
Toughness Characteristic of 4 at a cost of +1 point per model.
• Whenever a unit of either Adsecularis Tech-Thralls Covenant or Adsecularis Tech-Thralls Certus Covenant is completely destroyed, roll a D6.
On a roll of a 4+, place the entire unit into Reserves instead - it enters play automatically from your board edge at the start of the Controlling
Player’s next turn.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this War-Covenant must take a model with the Lachrimallion Lesser Techno-Arcana as its compulsory HQ choice, and
this model must be the army’s Warlord.
• Compulsory Troops slots in a Detachment using this War-Covenant must be filled with either Adsecularis Tech-Thralls Covenants or
Adsecularis Tech-Thralls Certus Covenants, and these units must be at their maximum possible unit size.
Vicarious Vivisectionist
A model with this Special Rule, and any models in a unit that it has joined, may re-roll failed Feel No Pain Damage Mitigation Rolls of 1.
Centurion War-Covenant: Macroteknia Enginseer Conclave
Effects
• A model in a Detachment using this War-Covenant with the Macroteknia Lesser Techno-Arcana gains the High Enginseer Special Rule
(see Liber Mechanicum, page 100).
• All Servo-Automata in a Detachment using this War-Covenant have an Armour Save of 4+.
• Any model in a Detachment using this War-Covenant which has the Battlesmith (X) Special Rule may choose, instead of the normal effects, to
attempt to return a single Servo-Automata previously slain in the battle to a unit they are part of (or have joined). A maximum of two ServoAutomata may be returned to a single unit in this way per game turn.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this War-Covenant must take a model with the Macroteknia Lesser Techno-Arcana as its compulsory HQ choice, and this
model must be the army’s Warlord.
• Compulsory Troops slots in a Detachment using this War-Covenant must be filled with Tech-Priest Auxilia units.
Centurion War-Covenant: Myrmidae Destroyer Cult
Effects
• A model in a Detachment using this War-Covenant with the Myrmidae Lesser Techno-Arcana gains The Myrmidon Host Special Rule
(see Liber Mechanicum, page 101).
• A single unit of Myrmidon Secutor Host in a Detachment using this War-Covenant may be upgraded to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic
of 5, at a cost of +10 points per model.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this War-Covenant must take a model with the Myrmidae Lesser Techno-Arcana as its compulsory HQ choice, and this
model must be the army’s Warlord.
• A Detachment using this War-Covenant must take at least as many units that are not either Myrmidon Secutor Hosts or Myrmidon Destructor
Hosts as units that are either Myrmidon Secutor Hosts or Myrmidon Destructor Hosts.
CENTURIONWAR-COVENANTS
57
Centurion War-Covenant: Ruinor Destructor Cohort
Effects
• A model in a Detachment using this War-Covenant with the Ruinor Lesser Techno-Arcana gains the Targeting Bionics Special Rule.
• Any unit composed entirely of models with the Infantry Unit Type in a detachment using this War-Covenant may be upgraded to have the
Targeting Bionics Special Rule for +10 points per unit.
Limitations
• A detachment using this War-Covenant must take a model with the Ruinor Lesser Techno-Arcana as its compulsory HQ choice, and this
model must be the army’s Warlord.
• Compulsory Troops slots in a Detachment using this War-Covenant must be filled with Thallax Cohorts.
Targeting Bionics
Whenever a model with this Special Rule makes a Shooting Attack, reduce the benefits of any Cover Save the target unit has by -1 (a 5+ becoming
a 6+, and a 6+ being ignored entirely, and so on).
58
You may use any of the following Centurion Cohort Doctrines in a Solar Auxilia army.These Cohort Doctrines are only to be used with the
Incursio Force Organisation Chart.
A Detachment which uses a Centurion Cohort Doctrine must select a Solar Auxilia Legate Marshal, with that model losing the Cohort Doctrines
Special Rule as a result.
CENTURION COHORTDOCTRINES
Centurion Cohort Doctrine: Hardened Veterans
Effects
• All models with the Infantry Unit Type in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine gain a bonus of +1 to their Leadership
Characteristic.
• Any unit that includes one or more models with the Character Sub-type (excluding Auxilia Medicae) in a Detachment using this Centurion
Cohort Doctrine may add +1 to their To-Hit rolls when making Shooting Attacks.
• All models selected as part of an Auxilia Veletaris Tercio in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine gain the Line Sub-type.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may not include more than one Auxilia Artillery Tercio.
• A Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may not select Dedicated Transports for any unit included in that Detachment.
Centurion Cohort Doctrine: Mortalis Specialists
Effects
• Any model in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may exchange a Flamer or a Heavy Flamer for a Toxiferran Flamer at no
additional points cost.
• Any model with the Character Sub-type in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may be equipped with Rad Grenades at a cost
of +10 points per model.
• Any model with the Character Sub-type in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may be equipped with a single Phosphex Bomb
at a cost of +10 points per model.
Limitations
• A detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may not include any Solar Auxilia Medicae Sections, Charonite Ogryn Sections, Solar
Auxilia Furibundus Dreadnought Talons, or Solar Auxilia Extremis Boarding Rig Sections.
Centurion Cohort Doctrine: Unconventional Conscripts
Effects
• Any model in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may replace a Lasrifle they are equipped with for one of the following
options at no additional points cost; Lascarbine, Lasgun, Stubcarbine, Autorifle, Shotgun, or Laspistol and Close Combat Weapon.
• Any model in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may replace a Lasrifle they are equipped with for the following option at a
cost of +2 points per model; Laspistol and Chainsword.
• Any unit in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine composed entirely of models with the Infantry Unit Type may be given the
Rage (2) and Counter-Attack (1) Special Rules at a cost of +30 points per unit. This does not improve or replace any existing instances of the
Rage (X) or Counter-Attack (X) Special Rules that the unit already possessed.
Limitations
• All models in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine with the Close-Order Sub-type lose that Sub-type.
• A Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may not select more than one Auxilia Tactical Command Tercio.
• A Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may not select more than one Auxilia Veletaris Tercio.
• A Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may not include any Solar Auxilia Medicae Sections, Charonite Ogryn Sections, Solar
Auxilia Furibundus Dreadnought Talons, or Solar Auxilia Extremis Boarding Rig Sections.
Centurion Cohort Doctrine: Mechanised Warfare
Effects
• Whenever a model from a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine gains a Cover Save due to intervening models, the Cover Save
provided is improved to a 5+ Cover Save if the intervening model or models are from the same Detachment and have the Vehicle Unit Type.
This improved Cover Save can also be claimed by models from a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine if the terrain providing the
Cover Save is a Wrecked Vehicle from the same Detachment.
• Any models with the Infantry Unit Type and Close Order Sub-type included in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine may
disembark up to their full Movement Characteristic and still claim the benefits of the Close Order Sub-type on that turn.
Limitations
• All models with the Infantry Unit Type included in a Detachment using this Centurion Cohort Doctrine must begin the game embarked on a
model with the Transport Sub-type, or otherwise must be placed into Reserves.
59
60
You may use any of the following Centurion World-Runes in an Asuryani army. These World-Runes are only to be used with the
Incursio Force Organisation Chart, and do not require a model with the Path of Command Special Rule to be utilised.
Rules for the Asuryani can be found in Liber Antiquia.
Centurion World-Runes: The Lightning Strike
Effects
• In a Detachment using this World-Rune, Windrider Squads lose the Support Squad Special Rule.
• Windrider Squads taken as Compulsory Troops choices in a Detachment using this World-Rune gain the Line unit Sub-type.
Limitations
• The Warlord of a Detachment using this World-Rune must be equipped with a Skyrunner Jetbike.
• A Detachment using this World-Rune must include more units equipped with Skyrunner Jetbikes, Vyper Jetbikes, or Raptor Jetbikes than units
without.
Centurion World-Runes: The Restless Dead
Effects
• A Detachment using this World-Rune may select units of Wraithblades and Wraithguard may be taken as Compulsory Troops in a Detachment
using this World-Rune.
• Units of Wraithblades and Wraithguard taken as Compulsory Troops in a Detachment using this World-Rune gain the Line Unit Sub-type.
• Units of Wraithblades and Wraithguard taken as Compulsory Troops in a Detachment using this World-Rune do not count against the
number of units they are allowed to select with the Wraith Unit Sub-type.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this World-Rune must include a Wraith Guide as an HQ choice, and this model must be the army’s Warlord.
• Whenever a unit with the Wraith Unit Sub-type is destroyed, the Opposing Player scores an additional +1 Victory Point.
Centurion World-Runes: The Decapitating Blow
Effects
• A single Farseer in a Detachment using this World-Rune may take an Outcast Cloak for +10 points. If selected, the Farseer also gains the
Skirmish Sub-type and Scout Special Rule for no additional cost.
• All models with the Infantry type in a Detachment using this World-Rune gain the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule for the first game turn, and
ignore all effects and Limitations of Night Fighting for as long as it is in effect.
Limitations
• All Compulsory Troops choices in a Detachment using this World-Rune must be Rangers.
• A Detachment using this World-Rune must include a Farseer as an HQ choice, and this model must be the army’s Warlord.
Centurion World-Runes: The Speartip
Effects
• A single Aspect Exarch in the detachment may be given the Exemplar of the Path Special Rule for no additional points cost.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this World-Rune may not include more units without the Infantry Unit Type than it does units with the Infantry Unit
Type. A unit which can be composed of models of both the Infantry and Cavalry Unit Type at the list building stage (such as Aspect Exarchs or
Guardian Officers) counts as whichever type is in the majority for the purposes of this restriction; for example, a unit with three models of
Cavalry and two Infantry would count as Cavalry.
• Whenever a unit with the Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule is destroyed, roll a D6. On a roll of a 6, the Opposing Player gains +1 Victory Point.
CENTURIONWORLD-RUNES
Exemplar of the Path
Units composed entirely of models with the same Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule as a model with this Special Rule may be taken as Compulsory
Troops choices, and gain the Line Sub-type. In addition, a model with this Special Rule must be the army’s Warlord, and does not count against the
normal limit of how many Aspect Exarchs may select a given Aspect Shrine.
61
Centurion World-Runes: The Awakened Anger
Effects
• Units of Guardian Defenders selected in a Detachment using this World-Rune may be upgraded to have a Ballistic Skill Characteristic of 5 for a
cost of +2 points per model.
• Units of Storm Guardians selected in a Detachment using this World-Rune may be upgraded to have a Weapon Skill Characteristic of 5 for a
cost of +2 points per model.
Limitations
• A Detachment using this World-Rune may not include any Aspect Exarchs, nor any units with the Aspect Shrine (X) Special Rule.
• A Detachment using this World-Rune must include at least one Guardian Officer Cadre.
ADDITIONAL GAME MODES FOR
THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Game Mode: Praetorian
64
The Praetorian Game Mode is an alternative game mode to the existing Game Modes presented in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core
Rulebook and other publications, and is designed to allow players to fight battles between primarily infantry-based forces.
We recommend games using the Praetorian Game Mode are played with between 1500 and 2000 points. Other than the stipulations listed below, a
game using the Praetorian Game Mode should be played with all rules and effects as though it were a game using the Narrative Play Game Mode.
The following effects must be adhered to whilst constructing a force to use with the Praetorian Game Mode:
• No models with the Vehicle Unit Type may be selected.
• You may select a Rite of War, but must fulfil the requirements for doing so as normal.
• You may only select a maximum of 1 Wound’s worth of models with a Toughness Characteristic of 6+ for each full 125 points in your army – the
points cost of models selected in this way is counted toward your army total. In this way, in an army of 1750 points, you could select a total of 14
Wounds worth of Toughness 6+ models – thus, up to two Legion Contemptor Dreadnoughts could be selected, with 2 Wounds remaining.
• Models with T8 or higher count as having double their number of wounds for the purposes of these limitations - meaning a Legion Leviathan
Dreadnought, which has 7W, counts as 14W for the purposes of points limitations.
GAMEMODE:PRAETORIAN
65
AGE OF DARKNESS:
Panoptica FAQs, Errata, and Balance Changes
68
Introduction
Within this section, you’ll find a mixture of FAQs, Erratas, and Balance Changes for the Core
Rules for the Horus Heresy, as well as all the Libers, PDFs, and more.
We understand that it can be intimidating to approach such a far-reaching piece of work and
understand why we have opted to change things in the ways we have - so, we have included
below a brief explanation on what constitutes each of our three categories of change, and why
we might assign something to any of them.
FAQ
Any changes designated as “FAQ” are, in our opinion, clarifications of existing functionality to
make the intentions clearer and the effects simpler to understand. These are indicated with a
Pink Gem.
Errata
Any changes designated as “Errata” are clearly broken or otherwise overlooked rules which
needed a refactoring in a simple and approachable manner. These changes will not change the
overall function of rules or units, but will ensure no ambiguity or confusion can occur during
game play. These are indicated with a Yellow Gem.
Balance Change
Any changes designated as “Balance Changes” are our efforts to make the game more balanced,
and ensure fair and fun game play for all. These are indicated with a Blue Gem.
Edited Entries
Wherever any text in a Special Rule or similar entry has had any text removed, this will be red
and struck through, as so: For example. Any text like this should be ignored.
Wherever any text in a Special Rule or similar entry has had any text added, this will be green
and bolded, as so: For example. Any text like this is intended to change how the item in
question works.
69
70
Sworn Brothers
Fellow Warriors
Distrusted Allies
By the Emperor’s (or the Warmaster’s) Command
AGE OF DARKNESS LEVELS OF ALLIANCE
THEHORUSHERESY:AGE OFDARKNESSALLIESMATRIX
In the Age of Darkness, fraught alliances can be made and broken in the heat of battle. These alliances may, on occasion, involve factions that were
not truly partisan in the wider Horus Heresy conflict.
The chart below is intended to replace the ones found in all current publications by Games Workshop, adding new factions and modifying a handful
of factions in terms of their relationships with each other. Despite these minor modifications, the chart below still functions as per the rules and
allegiance levels found on pages 10, 12, and 13 of the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook, and this should be consulted to see the benefits
and drawbacks applied by any given factions when they are allied together. It is also important to note that some sources, such as Special Rules, Rites
of War, and so on, may modify the relationships between any given Factions or Sub-Factions - if this is the case, it will be clearly specified, and the
allegiance rulings presented in those locations takes precedence over the chart presented below.
Note that even though there are numerous Sub-Factions in the Age of Darkness which share the same Faction (such as Legio Custodes and Sisters of
Silence, or Solar Auxilia and Imperialis Militia), which normally would prevent you from taking them as allies as you cannot select the same faction as
your Primary and Optional Detachments, you may still select forces which have different Sub-Factions as allies.
The icons in the chart correspond to the Levels of Allegiance shown in the boxout below:
71
Dark Angels
Emperor’s Children
Iron Warriors
White Scars
Space Wolves
Imperial Fists
Night Lords
Blood Angels
Iron Hands
World Eaters
Ultramarines
Death Guard
Thousand Sons
Sons of Horus
Word Bearers
Salamanders
Raven Guard
Alpha Legion
Mechanicum
Imperial Army
Aeldari
Dark Angels
Emperor’s Children
Iron Warriors
White Scars
Space Wolves
Imperial Fists
Night Lords
Blood Angels
Iron Hands
World Eaters
Ultramarines
Death Guard
Thousand Sons
Sons of Horus
Word Bearers
Salamanders
Raven Guard
Alpha Legion
Mechanicum
Imperial Army
Aeldari
PRIMARYDETACHMENT
OPTIONAL
DETACHMENT
72
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
THEHORUSHERESY:AGE OFDARKNESSCORERULEBOOK
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Reactions (Pages 158 - 160 & Page 330)
FAQ
Whenever a model commits an action that could trigger a Reaction
(such as making a Shooting Attack at an enemy unit, moving within
reaction distance, or so on), if such an action would allow multiple
enemy units to React, then all may do so, providing they have not
already Reacted this Phase, and the Reacting Player has sufficient
Reaction Allotment to do so.
It should be noted that Shooting Attacks or Charges made as part
of a Reaction must, as per the GW FAQ, target the unit that
triggered the Reaction.
CCWs and Bonus Attacks (Page 176)
FAQ
As per the boxout labelled “Close Combat Weapons” on P176, if a
model is armed with a pistol but no close combat weapon, then
they can use their pistol as a Close Combat Weapon with the
profile given. This means they are armed with a Close Combat
Weapon, and so cannot claim a second one.
Because a pistol counts as a Close Combat Weapon, a model armed
with two pistols may claim +1A for being armed with two Close
Combat Weapons.
Special Rules Overlap (Various Pages)
FAQ
If a weapon has multiple Special Rules which overlap with each
other, such as the the Graviton Gun, which has both the Haywire
and Graviton Pulse Special Rules, which can overlap in the case of
wounding certain target units. The Controlling Player should
choose a single such Special Rule to apply the effects of, and then
apply the effects of the chosen rule.
In the case of multiple models with “Must do X” stipulations (such
as having multiple Legion Champion Consuls with the Never Back
down Special Rule requiring them to issue or accept challenges), it
is assumed that the Controlling Player must pick one such trigger
to activate, and having multiple does not allow you to break the
core rules.
Snap Shots (Page 169)
FAQ
A model may never voluntarily choose to fire Snap Shots.
Declare Charges (Page 180)
FAQ
If a Unit Type declares that a unit may “Charges as normal
regardless of any Shooting Attacks made in the same turn”, it
should be noted that any charges must otherwise follow the normal
rules on valid Charge targets - unless the model also has a Special
Rule that states otherwise.
To-Wound Rolls and Special Rules (Various Pages)
FAQ
If an unit has a Special Rule, Wargear Item, or other ability that
affects the to-Hit or to-Wound roll (such as the Poisoned or
Fleshbane Special Rules, or is in a mixed unit of Automata and
non-Automata when hit by the Disruption Special Rule, or so on),
then you must resolve those hits as though the entire unit would
otherwise be able to be affected as per the Haywire FAQ
(Warhammer: The Horus Heresy Age of Darkness Rulebook FAQ,
Page 3).
Any Special Rules, Wargear Items, or other abilities that specify
they cannot be used in certain circumstances may not be benefit
from this ruling.
Start of Initiative Step Pile-in (Page 184)
Errata
Replace the first sentence to read as follows:
“At the start of each Initiative step, any model whose Initiative is equal
to the value of the current Initiative step that is not in base contact with
an enemy model may must make a Pile-in Move if it is able to do so.”
Sweeping Advances (Page 188)
Errata
Replace the first sentence of the third paragraph to read as follows:
“If the winner’s total (Initiative + dice roll) is equal to or greater than
their opponents’, the Falling Back unit is caught by the Sweeping
Advance and destroyed.”
The reasoning for this is because it is specified on page 190 that the
roll should be equal to or greater.
+1 Two Weapons: (Page 184)
Errata
Add the following to the section to read as follows:
“A weapon with the Detonation Special Rule is never counted when
determining if a model has two melee Weapons.”
Cavalry (Page 195)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the list of rules included in the
Cavalry Unit Type:
“- For the purposes of any rules that consider number of models in a
unit (such as Rampage), a Cavalry model counts as a number of models
equal to its starting Wounds Characteristic.”
Dreadnought (Page 195)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet points to the end of the Dreadnought
section:
“- For the purposes of any rules that consider number of models in a
unit (such as Rampage), a Dreadnought model counts as a number of
models equal to its starting Wounds Characteristic.
Failed To Wound rolls made against a unit with the Dreadnought Unit
Type by a weapon with the Ordnance type or the Sunder Special Rule
may be re-rolled.”
Explosions (Various Pages)
FAQ
Explosions from Vehicles, Atomantic Deflectors, Ferromantic
Deflectors, or any similar wargear item are not counted as Blasts or
Templates for the purposes of the Sub-types, Special Rules, or
Wargear.
73
Automata (Page 195)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet points to the end of the Automata section:
“- For the purposes of any rules that consider number of models in a
unit (such as Rampage), an Automata model counts as a number of
models equal to its starting Wounds Characteristic.
Failed To Wound rolls made against a unit with the Automata Unit
Type by a weapon with the Ordnance type or the Sunder Special Rule
may be re-rolled.”
Primarch (Page 196)
Balance Change
Replace the 3rd bullet point to read as follows:
“Any Hits inflicted by a Primarch, as part of either Shooting Attacks or
in close combat, are allocated by the Primarch’s controlling player and
not the Controlling Player of the target unit. These Hits should form a
separate Wound Pool. Primarchs have the Precision Strikes (2+) and
Precision Shots (2+) Special Rules, and may choose to use these rules
when attacking even when ordinarily they would be prevented from
doing so, including when making Snap Shots.”
Add the following bullet point to the Unit Type:
“Any unit entirely composed of models with the Primarch Unit Type
may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any
penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the
Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan,
Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.”
Daemon (Page 196)
Errata
Replace the 5th bullet point to read as follows:
“No unit that does not also have the Daemon Unit Type or the
Corrupted Unit Sub-type may join a unit that includes one or more
models with the Daemon Unit Type.”
Characters and Wound Allocation (Page 198)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the paragraph:
“When the Controlling Player is assigning Wounds caused by Shooting
Attacks, models with the Character Unit Sub-type may only have a
number of Wounds allocated to them from each Shooting Attack equal
to that model's unmodified Initiative Characteristic. When the
Controlling Player is assigning Wounds in the Fight Sub-phase, models
with the Character Unit Sub-type may only have a number of Wounds
allocated to them by their Controlling Player equal to that model's
unmodified Initiative Characteristic.
If a Wound would be assigned to the Controlling Player's model by the
Opposing Player, then the Opposing Player may assign Wounds as they
wish. If the model is removed as a casualty before all allocated Wounds
have been Saved, then the Controlling Player must re-allocate these as
normal. For example, if a Legion Tactical Squad suffered ten Wounds
from a Shooting Attack before Saving Throws were made, the Tactical
Squad Sergeant could only have a maximum of four Wounds allocated
to them by the Controlling Player to make Saving Throws against.”
Antigrav (Page 196)
Balance Change
Replace the 1st bullet point to read as follows:
“Models with the Antigrav Sub-type may move over friendly and
enemy models, but cannot end their move on top of either. They may
also move over all terrain, ignoring all penalties for Difficult Terrain
and Dangerous Terrain. However, if a moving model with the
Antigrav Sub-type starts or ends its move in Difficult Terrain or
Dangerous Terrain, it must take a Dangerous Terrain test. An Antigrav
model can even end its move over Impassable Terrain if it is possible
to actually place the model on top of it, but if it does so it must take a
Dangerous Terrain test. If an Antigrav model is forced to end its
move over friendly or enemy models, move the model the minimum
distance so that no models are left underneath it.”
Ramming (Page 204)
FAQ
If a Vehicle which is part of a Squadron attempts to make a Ram
attack, any models in the Squadron which do not or cannot
successfully Ram must still move their maximum Movement speed
to maintain coherency, and suffer the same restrictions that a
Ramming Vehicle suffers.
Crew Stunned (Page 208, 329)
FAQ
Add the following to the end of the GW FAQ line:
“If this would result in the Flyer ending its move in a position where it is
not permissible for it to end its move, reposition it the shortest distance
in any direction from its final movement position to avoid this.”
Slow Vehicles (Page 214)
Balance Change
Replace the last sentence to read as follows:
“In addition, when a Slow Vehicle moves at Cruising Speed, other than
to pivot in place, it is always considered to have moved at Cruising
Speed regardless of how many inches it moves. it may only fire
Snap Shots, regardless of the normal rules for Vehicles and
Shooting.”
Super-Heavy Vehicle Shooting (Page 215)
FAQ
All targets must be declared before any To Hit rolls are made.
Knights and Titans (Page 216)
Balance Change
Any model with either the Knight or Titan Unit Type gain the
Hammer of Wrath (3) Special Rule.
Add the following to the end of the Knights and Titans and
Assaults section:
“A Knight or Titan may make a Charge move against a model in area
terrain, ignoring vertical distances - treat the model being charged as
though it is on the ground floor for the purposes of distances. A Knight
or Titan may make a melee attack against a model whose base is
within 1” horizontally of their own, regardless of vertical distance.”
Add the following to the end of the third paragraph of the Knights
and Titans and Assaults section:
“In addition, a Knight or Titan gains +2 Attacks for being equipped
with two Melee weapons, instead of the normal +1 it would gain for
having Two Weapons (page 184).”
Flyers and Other Models (Page 218)
Errata
Add the following to the end of the paragraph:
"If a flyer is forced to end its move with its base within 1" of an enemy
model and is unable to be placed anywhere else (such as if has suffered a
Crew Stunned result) then the flyer must move the shortest possible
distance to avoid the enemy model and be placed over 1" away from it."
Balance Change
All models with this Unit Type gain the Countermeasures
Special Rule.
The Lumbering Sub-Type (Page 219)
Balance Change
Add the following sentence to the end of the section:
“Finally, due to the immense size of these airborne behemoths, they are
able to fire all weapons they are equipped with, suffering no penalties,
as part of any Shooting Attack they make, though they follow the
normal rules and restrictions on Reactions applied to the Lumbering
Sub-type.”
74
Order of Operations for Force Weapons (Pages 238 & 322)
FAQ
If multiple modifiers would affect the Strength of a model using a
Force Weapon, these should be resolved as follows:
- If a model has a weapon which would increase its S via a flat +X
bonus (such as a force maul), this occurs first.
- If a model uses the Force Psychic Power, the S multiplication from
this is resolved next.
- This means, assuming a base Strength of 4, a weapon strength of 6,
and a successful cast of the Force Power for x2 strength on the attack,
the model would resolve its attacks at Strength 12.
The reasoning for this is that Force specifically applies its Strength
multiplication bonus to the attack itself, not to the weapon or
bearer’s Strength.
Guided Fire (Page 239)
Balance Change
Add the following sentence:
“Models wounded by a weapon with this Special Rule may never benefit
from a Cover Save due to intervening terrain and models.”
Battlefield Terrain (Page 220)
FAQ
During Terrain set-up and Deployment, ensure that Ruins and
other terrain sections are defined as to the Cover Saves they
provide, as well as which sections can and cannot have Line of
Sight drawn through them, and which sections are classed as
Impassible or not. It should also be discussed which pieces of
terrain can or cannot have vehicles ascend or descend them.
In order to be considered as "placed" in a piece of terrain, a model's
base or hull must be wholly within the terrain. If the model
overhangs by a meaningful degree, it cannot be placed there! In
cases where this is not clear or not possible due to limitations of
the terrain itself, the "Wobbly Model Syndrome" rules from page
165 should be applied.
When players are making assault moves across terrain where it may
not be possible to place models cleanly due to terrain limitations,
ensure the "Wobbly Model Syndrome" rules are kept in mind whilst
agreeing with your opponent where models should be counted as
being before resolving Charges and combats.
Precision Shots / Strikes (X) (Page 245)
FAQ
The Precision Strikes (X) Special Rule does not allow models to
strike into - or out of - a Challenge. Outside forces must attack
other Outside forces, and Challengers must strike each other, in
line with the Challenge section on pages 198 and 199.
If a model makes any attack, then they may only gain the benefit of
the Precision Shots / Strikes (X) Special Rules on a successful Hit
(provided the Hit Roll is equal to or better than the value X).
Master-Crafted Blast and Template Weapons (Page 243)
Balance Change
Add the following to the rule:
“Master-Crafted Blast or Template Weapons are treated as though they
have the Twin-Linked Special Rule.”
Night Vision (Page 243)
Errata
Replace the entire Rule text with the following:
“A unit that contains at least one model with this Special Rule ignores
the effects of Night Fighting (see page 308) and no model may make
Shrouded rolls to negate Wounds or Hull Points inflicted by their
attacks.”
Monster Hunter (Page 243)
Errata
Replace the entire Rule text with the following:
“A unit that contains at least one model with this Special Rule re-rolls
all failed To-Wound rolls against Dreadnoughts, Automata and
Primarch models as well as any unit with the Monstrous Sub-type or
Gargantuan Sub-type.”
Concussive (X) (Page 236)
Balance Change
Replace the entire Rule text with the following:
“Any unit hit by one or more models or weapons with this Special
Rule must take a Leadership test once the attack is fully resolved. If
the test is passed, there is no further effect. If the Leadership test is
failed, all models in the unit suffer a penalty to their Weapon Skill equal
to the value in brackets until the end of their Controlling Player’s next
turn. Should the attacking unit hit themselves, they automatically pass
the Leadership test. Any model that does not have a Leadership
Characteristic (for example, Vehicles, Buildings, etc) are unaffected by
this Special Rule.
If a single unit has been the target of several Concussive attacks with
different values and fails the Leadership test, then it suffers the effects
of the highest single modifier among those attacks – the effects do
not stack or otherwise become cumulative.”
Blind (Page 236)
Balance Change
Replace the entire Rule text with the following:
“If a non-Vehicle unit suffers one or more unsaved Wounds from a
weapon with the Blind Special Rule, it must take a Initiative test once
the firing unit has finished its Shooting Attacks for that Phase. This is
called a Blind test. If the unit fails the Test, it is Blinded. If the test is
passed, there is no further effect. If the Initiative test is failed, all models
in the unit are reduced to Weapon Skill 1 and Ballistic Skill 1 until the
end of their Controlling Player’s next turn. Should the attacking unit
hit themselves, they automatically pass the Initiative test. Any model
that does not have an Initiative Characteristic (for example, Vehicles,
Buildings, etc) are unaffected by this Special Rule.”
Hit & Run (Page 240)
Balance Change
Replace the third paragraph with the following:
“If the Test is passed, choose a direction – then roll 2D6 and add the
unit’s Movement Initiative Characteristic to the result. As long as the
distance rolled, in inches, is sufficient to allow the entire unit to move
over 1" away from all of the enemy units they are locked in combat with,
the unit breaks away from combat and must immediately move a
number of inches in the chosen direction equal to the 2D6 + Movement
Initiative Characteristic result, ignoring the models they were locked in
combat with. No Sweeping Advance rolls are made. Enemy units that
are no longer locked in combat immediately Consolidate a number of
inches equal to their Initiative.”
Lumbering Flyers and the Transport Sub-Type (Page 219)
Errata
Add the following sentence after the first paragraph:
“When a Lumbering Flyer suffers Catastrophic Damage, any unit
Embarked upon it each suffers a number of Strength 10 AP 2 Hits equal
to the number of models Embarked. These Wounds are allocated by the
Embarked unit’s Controlling Player. Surviving passengers are placed
where the Lumbering Flyer used to be and in unit
coherency. Any models that cannot be placed are removed as casualties.
The unit then takes a Pinning test.
If a Transport is destroyed by a Shooting Attack, any unit which made
a Shooting Attack targeting that Transport can, if allowed, Charge the
now Disembarked passengers.”
75
Shock Pulse (Page 246)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the first paragraph:
“Models with the Super-Heavy, Lumbering, Knight, or Titan Sub-types
are not forced to make Snap Shots as part of their next Shooting
Attack, instead suffering a -2 penalty to their Ballistic Skill
Characteristic when they make their next Shooting Attack, and in
addition, any weapons they are equipped with use a Scatter dice to roll
to hit and which roll a result of ‘Hit’ on the Scatter die must re-roll it .
This penalty can only be applied to a model once per turn.”
Blast Markers, Templates, and Multi-Level Terrain
(Page 234, 248)
FAQ
When a shooting attack which uses a template or blast marker of
any kind hits a unit spread across multiple levels of terrain, all
models which are under the template’s final resting position are hit
- regardless of height on the terrain.
Performing a Flanking Assault (Page 311)
Errata
Replace the wording of the 2nd Paragraph to read as follows:
“Once all Flanking Assault units have moved onto the battlefield, any
enemy units that have one or more models within 6" of any unit
deployed as part of the Flanking Assault must make an immediate
Pinning test. Once all Pinning tests are resolved, any enemy units that
are neither Pinned nor Falling Back and are within line of sight may
choose to make the Interceptor Reaction targeting any one of the units
deployed as part of the Flanking Assault. Units that were unable to
deploy in the initial Flanking deployment and were forced to remain in
Reserve do not generate Pinning tests when they move onto the
battlefield, but may be targeted by Interceptor Reactions (see page 309)
after they arrive on the battlefield.”
Change the final paragraph of the GW FAQ on Flanking Assaults to
read as follows:
“Units that have Disembarked from a model with the Assault Vehicle
Special Rule in Step 5 of the Flanking Assault process may not Charge
in the following Assault phase, as an exception to the Assault Vehicle
Special Rule.”
Crusade Force Organisation Chart (Page 281)
FAQ
When constructing an army using the Crusade Force Organisation
Chart, irregardless of the number of Optional Detachments you
are able to select, you may still only select a single Allied
Detachment and a single Lord of War Detachment. Alternative
Force Organisation Charts provided in other publications will
specify how many of each kind of Detachment is permitted by
them.
Developer Note: This choice has been made as the wording on the
same page calls out “an Allied Detachment” - not multiple - and the
Chart on the same page also shows only a single such Allied
Detachment. This is further reinforced by the implication of the
“The Ragged and Forgotten” Campaign Stratagem in Campaigns of
the Age of Darkness: The Battle for Beta-Garmon, which states that a
player that selects it “…may choose to include an additional Allied
Detachment in their army (allowing a total of two different Allied
Detachments to be selected…”
Performing a Deep Strike Assault (Page 311)
FAQ
Any model which scatters off a board edge as part of a Deep Strike
Assault is instead considered to be within 1” of a board edge, and is
so replaced within the distance specified as per the normal rules.
Balance Change
Replace the second paragraph with the following:
“Once this first unit has been deployed, roll a D6. On the roll of a ‘1’, the
Deep Strike Assault is Disordered, and the opposing player may deploy
each other unit in the Deep Strike Assault anywhere wholly within 24”
of the first unit without scattering, though no model may be within 1"
of an enemy model or within Impassable Terrain. If the roll is a ‘2’ or
higher, then the Controlling Player deploys each other unit anywhere
wholly within 12” of the first, though no model may be within 1" of an
enemy model or within Impassable Terrain.”
Blood Feud (Page 312)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the list of Blood Feud Targets:
“- Armiger: +2 Victory Points
- Knights & Titans: +3 Victory Points*
- Super-Heavy & Lumbering Vehicles: +4 Victory Points*
*Note that The Price Of Failure Secondary Objective is scored in
addition to these Blood Feud Target Victory Points.”
Telekine Dome (Psychic Power) (Page 324)
Balance Change
Replace the entire Psychic Power ability description to read as
follows:
“Instead of moving during the Movement phase, a Psyker with this
Psychic Power may instead activate this Psychic Power. All models,
friendly and enemy, that are wholly within 8” of the Psyker gain a 6+
Invulnerable Save when targeted by any model that is not also wholly
within 8” of the Psyker. If the Psyker moves, makes a Shooting Attack,
Charges or is successfully Charged by an enemy unit, then the Psychic
Power ends, otherwise it remains in effect indefinitely. When initially
using the Psychic Power, or at the start of any of the controlling player’s
subsequent Movement phase while it is in effect, the controlling player
may choose to have the Psyker take a Psychic check. If the Check is
passed then models affected by this Psychic Power gain a 4+
Invulnerable Save instead of a 6+ Invulnerable Save. If the Check is
failed then the Psyker suffers Perils of the Warp and the Psychic Power
immediately ends.”
Telepathic Hallucinations (Psychic Weapon) (Page 325)
Balance Change
Replace the Hallucinations Rule description to read as follows:
“A unit that suffers one or more Hits from a Weapon with this Special
Rule must make an immediate Pinning test, adding one to the result of
the roll suffering a -1 modifier to their Leadership Characteristic for
each successful Hit scored by this attack before the result is decided. For
example, if a Psyker attacks an enemy unit that has a Leadership of 8,
scoring 3 Hits with Telepathic Hallucinations, then that unit must
make an immediate Pinning test and add 3 to the result rolled before
determining the result with a -3 modifier to their Leadership
Characteristic. Note that models with Special Rules that ignore
Leadership modifiers, such as Stubborn, do not suffer this negative
modifier.”
Thaumaturgic Succour (Psychic Power) (Page 325)
Balance Change
Replace the Hallucinations Rule description to read as follows:
“Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Psyker with this Psychic Power
may select a single friendly unit with at least one model within 12” and
make a Psychic check. If the Psychic check is passed then all non-Vehicle
models in the target unit may roll a D6. On a roll of a 5+, that
model regains a single lost Wound. in the target unit regain a single
lost Wound. This ability cannot be used to increase a model’s Wounds
beyond its starting Wounds Characteristic.”
Night Fighting (Page 308)
Balance Change
Replace the first paragraph to read as follows:
“If a mission has the Night Fighting Special Rule, either player can
declare that they wish to fight the battle at night. If either player does
so, roll a D6 before deployment: on a 2+ 4+, the Night Fighting Special
Rule is in effect during Game Turn 1. At the beginning of Game Turn 2,
roll a D6, on the score of a 4+ the Night Fighting Special Rule is in
effect during Game Turn 2 as well. At the end of Game Turn 2, all
effects of the Night Fighting Special Rule cease, and the Special Rule no
longer has any effect, unless another Special Rule states otherwise.”
76
Imperial Army Factions in Zone Mortalis (Page 170)
Balance Change
Units with either the Tercio or Strength in Numbers Special Rules
do not pay the Reinforcement Points cost per unit as normal,
instead paying only once per Force Organisation Slot option for all
units taken as a single Force Organisation Slot selection.
Imperialis Militia Infantry Squads and Imperialis Militia Levy
Squads gain the Close-Quarters Boarding Protocol Special Rule
when selected as part of a Detachment using the Zone Mortalis
Engagement Force Organisation Chart. In addition, Imperialis
Militia Heavy Ordnance Batteries may not be selected as part of a
Detachment using the Zone Mortalis Engagement Force
Organisation Chart.
Bound Daemons in Zone Mortalis (Page 170)
Balance Change
Any model which normally must be deployed onto the battlefield
by way of the Breach the Veil Psychic Power may, in games using
the Zone Mortalis Ruleset, be placed into Reinforcements, paying
the appropriate Reinforcement Points cost to enter play as per the
normal rules for Zone Mortalis.
It should be noted that the usual method of summoning Daemon
units into play (via Anathemata Psychic Powers) cannot be used in
Zone Mortalis as this game mode does not use Reserves.
Warlord: Butcher of Larissan (Page 208)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the Warlord Trait to read as follows:
“If, at the start of any player turn, the Opposing Player has
scored more Victory Points than Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius’
Controlling Player, then Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius and all
models in a unit he has joined with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial
Fists) Special Rule gain the Rage (2) Special Rule. Furthermore,
whenever an Opposing Player scores Victory Points by causing a unit
from the same Detachment as Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius to be
entirely removed as casualties, Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius’
Controlling Player may choose to roll a D6. If the final result of that roll
is a ‘6’ then the number of Victory points scored is reduced by 1 (to a
minimum of 0 1), the result of the D6 roll is increased by +1 if the
opposing player currently has more Victory Points than Lord-Castellan
Evander Garrius’ Controlling Player. Note that this ability cannot be
used for any Victory Points scored ‘at the end of the game’, such as
those awarded by the Blood Feud mission. In addition, an army that
has Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius as its Warlord may make an
additional Reaction during the Opponent’s Assault phase, as long as
Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius has not been removed as a casualty.”
The Tyrant’s Regalia (Page 209)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s effects:
“In addition, a unit that includes Lord-Castellan Evander Garrius may
not make Sweeping Advances.”
Vheren Ashurhaddon (Page 212)
Balance Change
Add the Outflank Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Dark Angels Legion Inductii Template (Page 226)
Balance Change
Change the wargear section to read as follows:
“All models in a unit modified by the Dark Angels Legion Inductii
template must exchange their bolter for a volkite charger at no
additional cost at a cost of +25 points for the unit.”
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
CAMPAIGNS OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:THE SIEGE OFCTHONIA
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Selecting Armies for Core Missions (Page 149)
Errata
Replace the second paragraph to read as follows:
“All armies for use in a Core Mission must use a points limit of 3,000
points, or as dictated by the campaign rules or the choice of all players
involved in the battles, selected using the Crusade Force Organisation
chart, or any Force Organisation Chart which explicitly replaces it.
Furthermore, all armies for use in a Core Mission must be selected
before the mission is selected or any other stage of battle preparation is
taken – this includes selecting any Warlord Traits, Rites of War, Psychic
Disciplines or other such options, which must all be noted on the
Controlling Player’s Army Roster.”
Core Missions & Night Fighting (Various Pages)
Balance Change
Add the following to this section:
“If the Player with Strategic Advantage elects to not activate Night
Fighting, the Opposing Player may still have the Night Fighting Rules
in effect on a roll of a 4+.”
Legiones Decurion Defensor (Page 216)
FAQ
The Advanced Reactions provided by the Legiones Decurion
Defensor allows all models in a unit to participate in the Advanced
Reaction, so long as at least one model in the unit has the Legiones
Decurion Defensor Upgrade.
Difficult and Dangerous Terrain in Zone Mortalis
(Page 172)
FAQ
Abilities, Weapons, Special Rules, and so on that generate areas of
Difficult or Dangerous Terrain (such as Graviton Guns) still do so
in games using the Zone Mortalis Ruleset.
77
Souls of Iron (Page 227)
Balance Change
Change the wording of the Special Rule to read as follows:
“During the Controlling Player’s Shooting phase, a unit with this
Special Rule must attempt a Shooting Attack if there is an enemy unit
within range that they are able to inflict Wounds or Hull Points of
Damage upon with weapons the unit is equipped with, and must
target the closest enemy unit possible that is within its line of sight and
is a valid target for a Shooting Attack. If two or more targets are equally
close then the Controlling Player chooses which will be the target of a
Shooting Attack. In addition, this unit automatically passes any
Pinning tests it is required to take, and gains the Stubborn Special
Rule.”
Blood Angels Legion Inductii Template (Page 229)
Balance Change
Change the Special Rules section to read as follows:
“All models in a unit modified by the Blood Angels Legion Inductii
template replace the Spite of the Legion Special Rule with The Revenant
Legion and Rage (2) Special Rules.”
Barbaran Resilience (Page 231)
Balance Change
Change the second paragraph to read as follows:
“Roll a D6 each time an unsaved Wound is suffered. If a unit with this
Special Rule includes ten or more models at the start of a given Phase
resolving the Wound Pool, then this rule has no effect. If a unit with
this Special Rule includes less than ten models at the start of a given
Phase resolving the Wound Pool, then on a roll of 6+ the unsaved
Wound is discounted. If a unit with this special rule includes less than
five models at the start of a given Phase resolving the Wound Pool then
on a roll of 5+, the unsaved Wound is discounted. Treat discounted
Wounds as having been saved. On any other result the Wound is taken
as normal.”
78
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
CAMPAIGNS OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:THEBATTLE FOR BETA-GARMON
Oath: The Spoils of Victory (Page 157)
Balance Change
Replace the Note section to read as follows:
“†Note that units that are not normally allowed to make a Sweeping
Advance, such as models with the Heavy Unit Sub-type or that have
Legion Cataphractii Terminator Armour, gain no benefit from this
Oath.”
Oath: Panoply of Old (X) (Page 156)
FAQ
It should be noted that any Legion-specific upgrades which allow a
unit or model to purchase a Special Rule, Unit Type or Sub-type, or
so on are permitted to be selected by this Oath as though they were
items of Wargear - unless this would be prevented by the inherent
restrictions in this Oath.
Augmetic Transport Bay (Page 158)
Balance Change
Add the following to the boxout:
“A Legion Rhino Transport that gains this Special Rule may be selected
as a Dedicated Transport for a Legion Tactical Squad or Legion
Despoiler Squad composed of up to 15 models, rather than 10 models as
is normally the case.”
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Selecting Armies for Core Missions (Page 111)
Errata
Replace the second paragraph to read as follows:
“All armies for use in a Core Mission must use a points limit of 3,000
points, or as dictated by the campaign rules or the choice of all players
involved in the battles, selected using the Crusade Force Organisation
chart, or any Force Organisation Chart which explicitly replaces it.
Furthermore, all armies for use in a Core Mission must be selected
before the mission is selected or any other stage of battle preparation is
taken – this includes selecting any Warlord Traits, Rites of War, Psychic
Disciplines or other such options, which must all be noted on the
Controlling Player’s Army Roster.”
Core Missions & Night Fighting (Various Pages)
Balance Change
Add the following to this section:
“If the Player with Strategic Advantage elects to not activate Night
Fighting, the Opposing Player may still have the Night Fighting Rules
in effect on a roll of a 4+.”
Legiones Consularis: Overseer (Page 177)
Balance Change
Add the Field Officer Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Mechanised Unit Sub-type (Page 179)
Balance Change
Change the fifth effect of the Mechanised Sub-type to read as
follows:
“A model with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type is affected by the
Haywire, Detonation and Battlesmith (X) Special Rules as if it
had the Dreadnought Unit Type. Any attacks made against a unit
with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type are resolved as if the model had
the Dreadnought Unit Type. Note that this affects any Wargear,
Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.”
Cohort Doctrine: Reconnaissance Pattern Cohorts
(Page 179)
Errata
Replace the second Effects bullet point to read as follows:
“Solar Auxilia Veletaris Assault Squadrons Solar Auxilia Hermes
Veletaris Squadrons in this Detachment gain the Outflank Special
Rule.”
Hermes Grenade Launcher (Page 180)
Balance Change
Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Aethon Missile Battery (Page 183)
Balance Change
Replace the Aethon Missile Battery’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Albian Power Gladius (Page 197)
Balance Change
Replace the Albian Power Gladius’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Solar Auxilia Lifeward Section (Page 186)
Balance Change
Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 5.
Add the Relentless Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Shadrak Meduson (Page 196)
Balance Change
Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 6.
Legion Optae (Page 200)
Balance Change
Change the Attacks Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3.
Solar Auxilia Aethon Heavy Sentinel Squadron
(Page 182)
Balance Change
Change the upgrade cost for a Autocannon to Free.
Change the upgrade cost for a Volkite Culverin to +5 points.
Change the upgrade cost for a Lascannon to +10 points.
Change the upgrade cost for a Heavy Incinerator to +5 points.
Change the upgrade cost for a Melta Lance to +15 points.
Change the upgrade cost for 4 Hunter-Killer Missiles to +10 points.
Tybalt Marr (Page 192)
Balance Change
Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
79
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
CAMPAIGNS OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:THEMARTIAN CIVILWAR
Legion Praevian and Corrupted Engines (Page 123)
Balance Change
Add the following to this page:
“An army that uses the Cohort Doctrine: Iron Pattern Cohort may take
a single unit with the Corrupted Engine Unit Sub-type. An army can
only include a maximum of one unit with the Corrupted Engine Unit
Sub-type chosen in this manner.”
Despoiler Cannon (Page 132)
Balance Change
Replace the Despoiler Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Hellcrusher Claws (Page 132)
Balance Change
Replace the Hellcrusher Claws’ profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Animatus Malevolence (Cybertheurgic Rite) (Page 155)
Balance Change
Replace the first paragraph of this Rite to read as follows:
“Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Cybertheurgist with this
Cybertheurgic Rite may select a single friendly unit within 12" that is
entirely composed of contains any models with the Corrupted Engine
Unit Sub-type or models with both the Automata Unit Type and the
Corrupted Unit Sub-type, and then apply one of the following effects:.”
Kaedes Nex (Page 160)
Balance Change
Replace the Power Armour on this unit’s profile with Artificer
Armour.
Add the Consul (Moritat) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Blood Slaughterer (Page 130)
Balance Change
Improve the Maelific Aegis (6+) Special Rule on this unit’s profile
with Maelific Aegis (5+), and add the Rage (2) Special Rule to this
unit’s profile.
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Selecting Armies for Core Missions (Page 97)
Errata
Replace the second paragraph to read as follows:
“All armies for use in a Core Mission must use a points limit of 3,000
points, or as dictated by the campaign rules or the choice of all players
involved in the battles, selected using the Crusade Force Organisation
chart, or any Force Organisation Chart which explicitly replaces it.
Furthermore, all armies for use in a Core Mission must be selected
before the mission is selected or any other stage of battle preparation is
taken – this includes selecting any Warlord Traits, Rites of War, Psychic
Disciplines or other such options, which must all be noted on the
Controlling Player’s Army Roster.”
Core Missions & Night Fighting (Various Pages)
Balance Change
Add the following to this section:
“If the Player with Strategic Advantage elects to not activate Night
Fighting, the Opposing Player may still have the Night Fighting Rules
in effect on a roll of a 4+.”
80
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
LIBER ASTARTES&HERETICUS
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Weapon & Equipment Upgrades (Various Pages)
Balance Change
If a weapon has its ammunition types replaced in this fashion (such
as Banestrike, Shrapnel, Asphyx etc) they may still select a bayonet
or chain bayonet as appropriate (in contravention to the GW FAQ),
and may still use their weapons to shoot in conjunction with the
Fury of the Legion Special Rule, and may gain an additional shot as
per that Rule.
A weapon can still have upgrades applied to it, even if it has the
Master-Crafted Special Rule.
Rites of War, Line, and Compulsory Troops
(Various Pages)
FAQ
Some Rites of War will grant the Line Sub-type to units when taken
in accordance with their stipulations. This is clearly worded in
some instances to only be granted to Compulsory Troops choices –
meaning only Compulsory Troops Choices would gain it, and not
all troops taken in the detachment – unless they already have the
Line Sub-type.
The units which are selected as Compulsory Troops and thus gain
the Line Sub-type as a result must be clearly noted during the List
Construction stage.
Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod (Page 64)
Balance Change
Add the Assault Vehicle Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Legion Leviathan Dreadnought Talon (Page 66)
Errata
Add the sentence below to the unit’s profile:
“*A Leviathan Dreadnought’s bonus attack for being armed with two
close combat weapons is already included in its profile.”
Legion Tactical Support Squad (Page 48)
Balance Change
Add the Line Sub-type to this unit’s profile. Legion Glaive (Page 88)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 575 points.
Legion Fellblade (Page 89)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 600 points.
Legion Falchion (Page 90)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 625 points.
Legion Mastodon (Page 93)
Balance Change
Add a Hull (Front) Magna-Melta Array to this unit’s profile - See the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Add the Reinforced Shell Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Legion Storm Eagle Gunship (Page 62)
Balance Change
Change the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted MultiMelta to a Hull (Front) Gravis Melta Cannon.
Legion Heavy Support Squad (Page 68)
Balance Change
Change the upgrade cost for Lascannons to +15 points.
Change the upgrade cost for Volkite Culverins to +10 points.
Change the option to upgrade to a Multi-Melta to include a
Suspensor Web.
Legion Xiphon Interceptor (Page 63)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 145 points.
Legion Arquitor Squadron (Page 81)
Balance Change
Change the Front Armour Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 13.
Add the Reinforced Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Legion Deathstorm Drop Pod Squadron (Page 83)
Balance Change
Change the Ballistic Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 4.
Legion Sicaran Venator Squadron (Page 73)
Balance Change
Add the Bombard Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Legion Contemptor Dreadnought Talon (Page 40-41)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 200 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 200 points per model.
Change the upgrade cost for a Gravis Melta Cannon to +15 points.
Change the upgrade cost for a Kheres Assault Cannon to +5 points.
Legion Scorpius Squadron (Page 80)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 175 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 160 points per model.
81
Rite of War: Angel’s Wrath (Page 97)
FAQ
A unit that can select a Legion Rhino Transport as a Dedicated
Transport may still select a Legion Storm Eagle as a Dedicated
Transport even if it is expanded beyond the maximum limit for
selecting a Legion Rhino Transport. A unit which would exceed the
transport capacity of a Legion Storm Eagle may not select one.
Rite of War: Drop Pod Assault (Pages 98 - 99)
FAQ
For the purposes of the Orbital Assault Vehicle Special Rule, a Drop
Pod Assault counts as deploying via Deep Strike Assault.
Rite of War: Armoured Spearhead (Page 102)
Balance Change
Replace the fourth Effects bullet point to read as follows:
“In a Detachment using this Rite of War, a single Legion Sicaran
Squadron, Legion Predator Squadron, or Legion Kratos Squadron,
composed of only a single model, must be selected as a HQ choice.
This model gains the Master of the Legion and Legiones Astartes
Command Tank Special Rules and must be selected as the army’s
Warlord and must use the Master of Armour Warlord Trait (as follows).
In this case, the model must be selected as the Warlord despite having
the Vehicle Unit Type, and regardless of any other rules that would
require another model to be selected as the Warlord (note this means
that some units and Characters cannot be selected as part of this army,
such as Primarchs).”
Add the following bullet point to the Effects:
“Legion Predator Squadrons taken as Compulsory Troops choices in a
Detachment using this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.”
Rite of War: Brethren of Iron (Page 102)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the Effects:
“All models with the Automata Unit Type selected in a Detachment
using this Rite of War gain the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule, where
X is the variant of the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule possessed by the
Detachment’s Warlord.”
Rite of War: Fury of the Ancients (Page 103)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the Limitations:
“ - Any model with the Dreadnought Unit Type and the Line Sub-type
selected in a Detachment using this Rite of War is worth an additional
+1 Victory Point when destroyed by an Opposing Player.”
Apothecarion Detachments and Techmarine Covenants
(Page 116)
FAQ
Any Apothecary or Techmarine which selects a Legion Scimitar
Jetbike may choose to join any unit equipped with any other pattern
of Jetbikes, as long as that unit also meets the other stipulations and
requirements of this rule.
Auxiliary Vehicle Bay (Page 117)
Errata
Add the following to the Special Rule:
“Models with the Flyer Sub-type, or with a Movement Characteristic of
0, can never embark into an Auxiliary Vehicle Bay.
Any model which would normally be prevented from being selected
during list construction (such as via a Rite of War) may still be selected if
it begins the game embarked upon an Auxiliary Vehicle Bay.”
Rite of War: Recon Company (Page 97)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the Effects:
“Legion Scout Squads chosen in a Detachment using this Rite of War
gain the Line Unit Sub-type.”
Change the third Effect to read as follows:
“A player whose army includes at least one Detachment using this Rite
of War may re-roll any dice they roll to see which player takes the first
turn (or otherwise has Strategic Advantage), or as well as when
attempting to Seize the Initiative or attempt a First Strike.”
Rite of War: Pride of the Legion (Page 100)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the Effects:
“Legion Veteran Squads taken as Troops Choices in a Detachment using
this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.”
Dreadnought Talon (Page 118)
FAQ
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule:
“Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as
its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and
similar rules.”
Rocket Barrage (Page 124)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the Special Rule to read as follows:
“If a model that has a weapon with this Special Rule does not move in
the Movement phase of a given turn, that weapon gains the
Rending (4+) (5+), Shell Shock (1), and Pinning Special Rules until the
start of the Controlling Player’s next turn.”
Advanced Reaction: Combat Air Patrol (Page 125)
FAQ
When resolving a Combat Air Patrol Advanced Reaction, the flyer
enters the battlefield and shoots entirely during the Movement
Phase. As a result, because this is not resolved in the Shooting
Phase, the flyer which made this reaction is not able to declare it is
using the Skyfire Special Rule.
Void Shields (X) (Page 127)
FAQ
When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void
Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are
deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For
example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack
successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three
shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded.
It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special
Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the
Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation
Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X)
Special Rule.
82
Legion Scimitar Jetbikes and Legion Spatha Combat Bikes
(Page 144)
Balance Change
Add the Battle-Hardened (1) and Skilled Rider Special Rules to the
rules and abilities provided by these item of wargear.
In addition, a model equipped with either a Legion Scimitar Jetbike
or Legion Spatha Combat Bike sets their Wounds Characteristic to
2, unless they already have a higher starting Wounds Characteristic.
Scout Armour (Page 145)
Balance Change
Add the Light Sub-type to the rules and abilities provided by this
item of wargear.
Teleport Strike (Page 147)
Balance Change
The ability for Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) models to gain
Deep Strike via the Teleport Strike Wargear option is also available
to Legiones Astartes (Sons of Horus) and Legiones Astartes
(Night Lords), as follows:
“All models with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists), (Sons of Horus)
or (Night Lords) Special Rule in a unit equipped with any form of
Terminator Armour may be given the Deep Strike Special Rule for +25
points per unit.
Any model with the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists), (Sons of Horus)
or (Night Lords) Special Rule and the Independent Character Special
Rule may be given the Deep Strike Special Rule for +20 points per
model.”
Krak Grenades (Page 143)
Balance Change
Replace the wargear’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Lascutter (Page 138)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Paired Lightning Claws (Page 137)
FAQ
The +2A bonus for being armed with two Lightning Claws can only
be claimed if the bearer attacks with the Paired Lightning Claws. If
the bearer attacks with any other Specialist Weapons, then they
would gain only a single bonus attack as per the standard rules for
having multiple Specialist Weapons.
Geo-Locator Beacon (Page 142)
Errata
Replace this Wargear’s effects to read as follows:
“As long as a model with this Special Rule equipped with a GeoLocator Beacon is deployed on the battlefield, the Controlling Player
may choose to re-roll all failed Reserves rolls they make.”
Spicula Rocket System (Page 133)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Gravis Power Fist (Page 137)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Heavy Chainsword (Page 136)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Volkite Carronade (Page 134)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Aiolos Missile Launcher (Page 133)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Grav-Flux Bombard (Page 131)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Grenade Launcher (Secondary) (Page 130)
Balance Change
Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Volkite Macro-Saker (Page 134)
Balance Change
Replace the Volkite Macro-Saker profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Suspensor Web (Page 147)
FAQ
A weapon with a Suspensor Web may be fired as an Assault weapon
at half range or less. If a weapon fired in this manner has any
Special Rules that rely on range (such as Armourbane (Melta)) then
the range required to trigger this Special Rule is calculated based
on the weapon’s original range, not the modified range from the
Suspensor Web’s effects.
Morbus Bombard (Page 129)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Demolisher Cannon (Page 129)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Dreadhammer Siege Cannon (Page 129)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Fellblade Accelerator Cannon (Page 128)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Kratos Battlecannon (Page 128)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profiles with the ones found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
83
84
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
LIBER ASTARTES
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Ancient of War (Page 169)
FAQ
The benefits gained from the Ancient of War Special Rule can
affect units in a transport which are within 6” of a model with this
Special Rule.
Swift of Action (Page 176)
Balance Change
Replace the Special Rule to read as follows:
“All models with this Special Rule add +1 to their Movement
Characteristic and whenever called upon to make a roll to determine
which player will take the First Turn or to Seize the Initiative (or
otherwise has Strategic Advantage), the Controlling Player of an army
whose Primary Detachment has this Special Rule may roll an
additional dice and discard the lowest rolled dice before determining
the result. ”
Born to the Saddle (Page 178)
FAQ
Because Cavalry must treat Difficult Terrain as Dangerous, they
simply gain the 4+ Invulnerable save granted by this Warlord trait
against any Difficult or Dangerous Terrain damage incurred to
them as they attempt to pass through it.
Legion Shamshir Jetbike (Page 180)
Balance Change
Change the second paragraph of this wargear to read as follows:
“A model with the Infantry Unit Type that selects a Legion Shamshir
Jetbike as an upgrade (or is otherwise equipped with one as part of its
basic Wargear) must change its Unit Type to Cavalry (Antigrav),
keeping any other Unit Sub-types it previously had, changes its
Movement Characteristic to 15”* 19”*, gains the Firing Protocols (2),
Battle-Hardened (1), Skilled Rider, and Hammer of Wrath (1) Special
Rules and improves its Armour Save to 2+ if it was worse. A model that
is equipped with a Legion Shamshir Jetbike counts as having a Legion
Scimitar Jetbike for rules and interactions that affect or require that
wargear.”
Inner Circle Knights Cenobium (Page 160)
Balance Change
Set the Unit Type for the Order Cenobite profile to Infantry
(Heavy), and the Unit Type for the Order Preceptor profile to
Infantry (Character, Heavy).
Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit.
Change the upgrade cost for a Thunder Hammer to +5 points per
model.
Rite of War: Storm of War (Page 154)
Balance Change
Add the following sentence to the first point in the Effects section
to read as follows:
“Note that Legion Centurions selected in this manner do not prevent
Legion Apothecaries or Legion Techmarines from joining the unit
during list construction, contrary to the normal rules around Legion
Apothecaries or Legion Techmarines joining units with the Independent
Character Special Rule. Any Centurions selected in this manner may
not also select a Legion Company Command Squad.”
The Regalia of the Shattered Sceptre (Page 169)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule:
“In addition, The Regalia of the Shattered Sceptre confers the Bulky (2)
Special Rule, and a unit that includes Marduk Sedras may not make
Sweeping Advances.”
Jaghatai Khan (Page 182)
Balance Change
Add the Outflank Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Add the following to this model’s profile:
“If Jaghatai Khan selected his Sojutsu Pattern Voidbike, he is counted as
having a Legion Scimitar Jetbike for rules and interactions that affect or
require that wargear.”
Sojutsu Pattern Voidbike (Page 183)
Balance Change
Add the following to the fifth bullet point:
“Note that even though Jaghatai Khan is counted as having the Cavalry
Unit Type whilst upgraded to have a Sojutsu Pattern Voidbike for the
purposes of any Rules, he cannot be affected by Narthecium Wargear.”
Rite of War: Unbroken Vow (Page 154)
Balance Change
Add the following point to the Effects section of this Rite of War:
“Any Legion Terminator Cataphractii Squads and Legion Terminator
Tartaros Squads taken as Compulsory Troops choices in a Detachment
using this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.”
Rite of War: The Eskaton Imperative (Page 153)
Balance Change
Change the final point in the Effects to read as follows:
“All models with the Dreadwing Unit Sub-type in a Detachment using
this Rite of War gain +1 to all to-Wound Rolls made against models a
unit which has half or more of its models in any zone of Area Terrain
or Terrain Piece that counts as Dangerous Terrain (including any
models forced to count other types of terrain as Dangerous Terrain by
another Special Rule.)”
Rite of War: The Serpent’s Bane (Page 155)
Balance Change
Change the second point in the Effects to read as follows:
“At the start of the battle, the Controlling Player must select three
enemy units which contain a model selected as a part of a Primarch,
HQ, Elites, or Lord of War choice. Primarch, HQ, Elites, or Lord of
War choices as Priority Targets and declare the chosen units to their
opponent.
All models in a unit from this Detachment that includes at least one
model with the Firewing Unit Sub-type may add +1 to all To Hit rolls
made against these Priority Targets or any unit that a Priority Target
has joined. If the enemy army does not include at least three Primarch,
HQ, Elites or Lords of War choices then any other units in the enemy
army may be designated to fill the remaining required Priority Targets.”
Dreadwing Interemptor Squad (Page 162)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 150 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 25 points per model.
85
Golden Keshig (Page 184)
Balance Change
Remove the Heavy Sub-type from this unit’s entry.
Ebon Keshig (Page 185)
Balance Change
Add the following Dedicated Transport text to this unit as follows:
“An Ebon Keshig Cohort may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier
as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5 models
or a unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a
Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use up an
additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid
for as part of the army.”
Winds of Fenris Psychic Power: Stormwrought (Page 203)
Balance Change
Change the last sentence to read as follows:
“If the Check is passed then the effect is improved to Shrouded (3+), if the
Check is failed the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule is applied to the target
unit and the Psyker suffers Perils of the Warp.”
Iliastus Assault Cannon (Pages 229 & 253)
Balance Change
Change the first bullet point to read as follows:
“Any models with the Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels or Imperial Fists)
Special Rule and the Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type may exchange a
Heavy Flamer or Twin-Linked Heavy Flamer for an Iliastus Assault
Cannon for +10 points each. If multiple models in a unit are eligible to
upgrade their weapons in this way and any chooses to do so, all models
in the unit must be so upgraded.”
Change the third bullet point to read as follows:
“Any models with the Dreadnought or Vehicle Unit and Legiones
Astartes (Blood Angels or Imperial Fists) Special Rule may exchange a
Heavy Flamer or Twin-Linked Heavy Flamer for an Iliastus Assault
Cannon for +10 +20 points each. If multiple models in a unit are eligible
to upgrade their weapons in this way and any chooses to do so, all
models in the unit must be so upgraded.”
Blood Angels Advanced Reaction (Page 249)
Balance Change
Change the first sentence to read as follows:
“This Advanced Reaction may be made once per battle during the
opposing player’s Shooting phase when any enemy player declares a
Shooting Attack targeting a unit composed entirely of models with the
Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type and the Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels)
Special Rule under the Reactive player’s control.”
Space Wolves Advanced Reaction (Page 197)
FAQ
This Advanced Reaction may only be triggered whenever a model
specifically starts its movement within 12” of an applicable friendly
unit with the Legiones Astartes (Space Wolves) Special Rule.
Ungainly (Page 184)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of this Special Rule to read as follows:
“A model may only attack with this weapon on a turn in which it makes
a successful Charge Charge (even if that Charge is Disordered), but
does not gain a bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules
that would normally grant additional Attacks.”
Frost Blades (Page 200)
Balance Change
Change the points cost for a model with the Independent Character
and Legiones Astartes (Space Wolves) Special Rules to exchange a
Power Weapon for a Frost Blade (Frost Sword, Frost Axe or Frost
Claw) to free.
Change the points cost for a model with the Independent Character
and Legiones Astartes (Space Wolves) Special Rules to exchange a
Power Weapon for a Great Frost Blade to +5 points.
Frost Claw (Page 200)
Balance Change
Add the following to the weapon’s profile:
*A model armed with two Frost Claws gains +2 Attacks, instead of the
normal +1 for two melee weapons.
Sigismund (Page 236)
Balance Change
Remove the Eternal Warrior Special Rule from this unit’s profile.
Add the Emperor’s Chosen Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Vigil Storm Shield (Page 228)
Balance Change
Change the Wargear’s effects to read as follows:
“Any model with both the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes
(Imperial Fists) Special Rule that does not also have the Unique Unit
Sub-type may take a Vigil Storm Shield for +15 points. Any model with
the Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) Special Rule and Legion
Cataphractii or Legion Tartaros Terminator Armour may exchange a
Combi-Bolter for a Vigil Storm Shield for +10 points each.
A Vigil Storm Shield provides a 5+ Invulnerable Save or increases an
Invulnerable Save the model already has by one step (for example, from
5+ to 4+, to a maximum of 3+). A model with a Vigil Storm Shield may
not claim an additional attack for a second weapon in close combat or
make attacks with any weapon that has the Two-handed Special Rule.”
Rite of War: The Stone Gauntlet (Page 226)
Balance Change
Replace the third Effect bullet point to read as follows:
“Any model in a Detachment using this Rite of War, and with the
Legiones Astartes (Imperial Fists) Special Rule, with a Boarding Shield,
which is in unit coherency with at least two other models that also fit
these criteria, may re-roll all failed Invulnerable Saves of 1 made against
Shooting Attacks or attacks made during the Fight sub-phase. This
bonus may not be claimed if the unit the model is part of has made a
Run move, Charge or a Sweeping Advance move in the current player
turn, or is Falling Back.”
Replace the first Limitation bullet point to read as follows:
“A Detachment using this Rite of War must select Phalanx Warder
Squads or Legion Breacher Squads to fill all Compulsory Troops choices
in the Detachment.”
Sanguinius (Page 254)
FAQ
The Sire of the Blood Angels Special Rule allows any friendly model
with the Legiones Astartes (Blood Angels) Special Rule that also
deployed via Deep Strike or has a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack to
gain +1 WS on a turn in which they Charge. This bonus lasts until
the end of the Controlling Player’s turn, at which point it is lost. If
a unit that meets these stipulations charges again during the game,
it can again gain +1WS until the end of Controlling Player’s turn.
The unit may do this multiple times during the course of the game.
In addition, this model counts as having a Legion Warhawk Jump
Pack for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.
86
Mantle of the Elder Drake (Page 313)
Balance Change
Change the points cost of this upgrade to +25 points.
Dragon’s Breath (Page 312)
Balance Change
Add the following text to this Special Rule:
“All weapons with this Special Rule gain the Breaching (6+) Special
Rule.”
Praetorian Breacher Squad (Page 299)
Balance Change
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Praetorian Breacher Squad may take a Legion Termite Assault Drill
or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport. If
taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force
Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the
army.”
Rite of War: The Covenant of Fire (Page 310)
Balance Change
Change the first Effect to read as follows:
“Pyroclast Squads may be chosen as Troops choices in a Detachment
using this Rite of War gain the Line Unit Sub-type.
Legion Tactical Support Squads that include any models with Dragon’s
Breath Flamers gain the Heart of the Legion Special Rule.”
Rite of War: The Awakening Fire (Page 310)
Balance Change
Change the first Effect to read as follows:
“Salamanders Adherents Squads chosen as Troops choices in a
Detachment using this Rite of War lose the Support Squad Special Rule
and gain the Line Unit Sub-type.”
Invictus Suzerain Squad (Page 298)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 200 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 35 points per model.
Remove the Character and Line Sub-types from the Unit Type.
Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit.
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“An Invictus Suzerain Squad may take a Legion Termite Assault Drill
or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport. If
taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force
Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the
army.”
Argyrum Pattern Boarding Shield (Page 295)
Errata
Add the following to the end of the the wargear’s profile:
“An Argyrum Pattern Boarding Shield counts as a Boarding Shield for
all intents and purposes, including Rites of War, Special Rules, and
wargear limitations which either require their use or prevent it (such as
a Master of Signals being prevented from taking a Boarding Shield),
though it does not confer any of the benefits normally gained from a
Boarding Shield from any such sources.
In addition, a model armed with an Argyrum Pattern Boarding Shield
cannot claim bonus attacks for having more than one melee weapon.”
Medusan Immortals (Page 283)
Balance Change
Add the Relentless Special Rule to the unit’s profile.
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Medusan Immortal Squad may take a Legion Termite Assault Drill
or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport as
long as it numbers no more than 10 models. If taken this way, a
transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its
points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.”
Gorgon Terminator Squad (Page 282)
Balance Change
Remove the Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule from this unit’s profile,
and add the Augmetics (5+) Special Rule to this unit’s profile
instead.
Forgebreaker (Page 281)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Talon of Perdition (Page 263)
Balance Change
Add the following to the weapon’s profile:
*A model armed with two Talons of Perdition gains +2 Attacks, instead
of the normal +1 for two melee weapons.
Iron Hands Gorgon Terminator Armour (Page 279)
Balance Change
Replace the wargear wording to read as follows:
“Any Legion Cataphractii Praetor or Legion Cataphractii Centurion
may exchange their Legion Cataphractii Terminator armour for
Gorgon Terminator Armour at no additional points cost for +10
points.
Gorgon Terminator armour confers a 2+ Armour Save, a 5+
Invulnerable Save, and the Feel No Pain (5+) Augmetics (5+) Special
Rule.
At the end of any Phase in which a model with Gorgon Terminator
armour has passed at least one Armour Save or Invulnerable Save, roll a
D6. On the result of a 4+, all enemy units with at least one model
within 6" of the model with Gorgon Terminator armour must test as if
they had been hit wounded by a weapon with the Blind special rule.
Any unit that is composed entirely of models with Gorgon Terminator
armour are immune to this effect.”
Rite of War: The Logos Lectora (Page 293)
FAQ
The Limitation requiring an army using this Rite of War does not
grant an additional Compulsory HQ slot, to a total of four HQ slots
- it simply converts one of the two non-Compulsory HQ slots into
a Compulsory one, leaving an army using this Rite of War with two
Compulsory HQ slots (one of which must contain either a Master
of Signal Consul or a Legion Damocles Command Rhino) and one
non-Compulsory HQ slot.
Dawnbreaker Cohort (Page 256)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 185 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 30 points per model.
87
Shadow and Fury (Page 326)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the rule, and the bonuses it offers, to read
as follows:
“Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule gain
one of the following Special Rules based on the Unit Type and Wargear
of the model. Models that do not fulfil one of the listed criteria gain no
additional benefit.
• Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule
that have the Infantry Unit Type, but do not also have the Heavy
Unit Sub-type or a Legion Warhawk jump pack, Corvid pattern
jump pack or Legion Tartaros Terminator armour, but are not
equipped with Terminator Armour of any kind, a Legion
Warhawk Jump Pack or a Corvid Pattern Jump Pack gain the
Talons Special Rule.
• Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule
that have the Dreadnought or Primarch Unit Types; any models
with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) Special Rule and both
the Infantry Unit Type and the Heavy Unit Sub-type; that are
equipped with or Legion Tartaros Terminator armour
Terminator Armour of any variety, a Legion Warhawk Jump
Pack or a Corvid Pattern Jump Pack gain the Falcons Special
Rule.
• Models with the Legiones Astartes (Raven Guard) special rule
that have the Cavalry Unit Type or the both the Vehicle Unit
Type and the Fast or Flyer Unit Sub-Types gain the Hawks
Special Rule.
Talons: If a unit composed entirely of models with the Talons Special
Rule is targeted by a Shooting Attack, all models in the unit gain the
Shrouded (6+) special rule if the attacking unit is more than 8”
from any model in the target unit. In addition, all models with this
Special Rule also gain the Infiltrate Special Rule.
Falcons: Any models with this Special Rule may re-roll all failed To
Wound Hit rolls of 1 in any Assault phase in which they make a
successful Charge - even if that Charge is considered Disordered.
Hawks: Any models with this Special Rule gain the Shrouded (6+)
Special Rule on any turn in which they Run, Move Flat Out or move as
a Zooming Flyer, with this benefit lasting until the start of the
Controlling Player’s next turn - or if that model would already gain the
Shrouded (6+) Special Rule, it gains the Shrouded (5+) Special Rule (if a
model already has Shrouded (5+) or better than it gains no
additional benefit).”
Rite of War: Decapitation Strike (Page 329)
Balance Change
Change the second Effects bullet point to read as follows:
“All models in any unit from a Detachment using this Rite of War
assigned to a Deep Strike Assault or Flanking Assault gain the Shrouded
(5+) Special Rule for the duration of the Game Turn in which they are
deployed to the battlefield until the start of the Controlling Player’s
Next Turn when they enter play.”
Dawnbringer (Page 315)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Corvus Corax (Page 332)
FAQ
This model counts as having a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack for
rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.
88
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
LIBERHERETICUS
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Tyrant Siege Terminators (Page 186)
Balance Change
Change the effects of the Omni-Scope wargear to read as follows:
“A unit that includes at least one model with an Omni-Scope ignores all
the effects of Night Fighting, has the Night Vision Special Rule. In
addition, when a unit that includes one or more models equipped with
an Omni-Scope makes the Interceptor Advanced Reaction , the reaction
does not cost the Controlling Player a point from their Reaction
Allotment . This does not allow the unit to make more than one
Reaction per Phase, but does allow the Controlling Player to exceed the
normal three Reactions limit in a given Phase.”
World Eaters Advanced Reaction (Page 215)
Balance Change
Change the first sentence to read as follows:
“This Advanced Reaction may be made once per battle during the
opposing player’s Shooting phase when any enemy player declares a
Shooting Attack targeting a unit composed entirely of models with the
Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type and the Legiones Astartes (World Eaters)
Special Rule under the Reactive player’s control.”
Phoenix Terminator Squad (Page 158)
Balance Change
Set the Unit Type for the Phoenix Terminator profile to Infantry,
and the Unit Type for the Phoenix Champion profile to Infantry
(Character).
Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit.
Terror Squad (Page 202)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 135 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 22 points per model.
Change the Wounds Characteristic on the Executioner and
Headsman profiles to be 2.
Night Raptor Squad (Page 203)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 150 points.
Wrack & Ruin (Page 175)
FAQ
In order to claim the +1 bonus to the Strength Characteristic of an
attack, any unit targeted or hit must have one of the Unit Types
specified.
Captain Lucius (Page 166-167)
FAQ
In an army containing both Captain Lucius and Fulgrim
Transfigured, Captain Lucius does not need to exchange the Blade
of the Laer for a Close Combat Weapon.
Captain Saul Tarvitz (Page 164)
Balance Change
Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Violence Incarnate (Page 214)
Balance Change
Change the Special Rule to read as follows:
“On any turn in which a unit model with this Special Rule makes a
successful Charge, it gains +1 Attack for the remainder of that turn in
addition to any other bonuses, even if that Charge is considered a
Disordered Charge.”
Nostraman Chain Weapons (Page 198)
Balance Change
Change the points cost for a model with the Character Sub-type
and the Legiones Astartes (Night Lords) Special Rule to exchange a
Power Weapon for a Chainblade or Chainglaive to free.
Contekar Terminator Squad (Page 204)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 250 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 45 points per model.
Rite of War: Terror Assault (Page 197)
Balance Change
Remove the third point in the Limitations section.
Add the following to the end of the Effects section of this Rite of
War:
“Terror Squads taken as Compulsory Troops in a Detachment using
this Rite of War gain the Line Sub-type.”
Palatine Blade Squad (Page 160)
Balance Change
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Palatine Blade Squad may take a Legion Rhino Transport, Legion
Drop Pod, Legion Termite Assault Drill, or Legion Land Raider
Proteus Carrier as a Dedicated Transport. As a Dedicated Transport,
this does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its
points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.”
Graviton Crusher (Page 180)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Perturabo (Page 182)
Balance Change
Add the Heavy Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Add a Nuncio-Vox and Cognis Signum to this unit’s wargear.
89
Excoriator Chainaxe (Page 219)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) (Page 232)
FAQ
Because the Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule means all
Death Guard units are counted as stationary for the purposes of
shooting, models with Fury of the Legion Special Rule are able to
gain its benefits while shooting, even if they have moved, because
they are counted as stationary.
If a model with the Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule is
equipped with a Helical Targeting Array, it may not claim the
benefits of the Wargear if it has moved for any reason during the
Controlling Player’s preceding Movement Phase.
The Prosperine Arcana (Page 255)
FAQ
Any Minor Arcana selections for your army must be made during
army selection.
Units with multiple Minor Arcana (such as an Independent
Character joining a unit with different Minor Arcana) may use each
of them during the relevant phases.
Asphyx Shells (Page 258)
Balance Change
Change the text to read as follows:
“Any model with the Legiones Astartes (Thousand Sons) Special Rule
may exchange their Bolt Pistol for an Asphyx Bolt Pistol and/or their
Bolter for an Asphyx Bolter for 1 point per weapon.”
Achea Pattern Force Weapons (Page 259)
FAQ
As Achea Pattern Force Weapons do not have the Force Special
Rule (despite being of the Force type), they do not gain Instant
Death when models with the Daemon Unit Type or Corrupted
Sub-type, and similarly, the Adamantium Will (X) Special Rule
cannot provide a benefit against attacks made with them.
Balance Change
Remove the following sentence:
“(a model with the Independent Character Special Rule may not select
this option)”
Achean Force (Page 259)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the GW Errata to read as follows:
“A model with the Dreadnought Unit Type and a weapon with the
Achean Force Special Rule may activate it despite normally being
prevented from doing so because they do not have the Psyker Sub-type.”
Magnus the Red (Page 260)
Balance Change
Add the Psychic Mastery (3) Special Rule to the unit’s profile.
Sire of the Thousand Sons (Page 260)
Balance Change
Change the wording of the Special Rule to read as follows:
“All models with the Infantry or Cavalry Unit Type in the
same army as Magnus the Red with the Psyker Sub-type gain the
Adamantium Will (6+) Special Rule (if a model already has a version of
this special rule then the value of that Special Rule is increased by one
step, for example from (5+) to (4+)) and any model with the Legiones
Astartes (Thousand Sons) Special Rule (Including Magnus the Red) that
suffers Perils of the Warp reduces the number of Wounds inflicted by 1
(to a minimum of 1 wound). In addition, an army with Magnus the Red
as its Warlord gains an additional Reaction in the Opposing Player’s
Assault phase, unless Magnus the Red has been removed as a casualty.”
Castellax-Achea Automata (Page 266)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 100 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 95 points per model.
Rite of War: The Achaean Configuration (Page 257)
Balance Change
Change the second Limitation to read as follows:
“A Detachment using this Rite of War must include at least one Legion
Techmarine Covenant or Thousand Sons Numerologist Cabal.”
Red Sands (Page 221)
Balance Change
Replace the first sentence to read as follows:
“In any given turn Angron may make as many Challenges as there are
enemy models with the Chosen Warrior Special Rule, Character Subtype, or Primarch Unit Type locked in combat with him, up to his
current number of Attacks.”
Rite of War: Berserker Assault (Page 217)
Balance Change
Change the first Limitation to read as follows:
“All units in a Detachment using this Rite of War must declare a
Charge in any of the Controlling Player’s Assault Phases where there is
at least one model from any enemy unit within 12" and line of sight of a
unit selected as part of a Detachment using this Rite of War, and must
always target the closest enemy unit if possible. This Charge may not
initiate a Multiple Combat.”
Ravening Madmen (Page 218)
Balance Change
Change the first sentence of the Special Rule to read as follows:
“Any model making a To Wound roll in the Assault phase against a
unit composed entirely of models with this Special Rule reduces its
Strength by -1 when determining the score required To Wound (this
does not affect the attacking unit’s Strength for the purposes of
inflicting Instant Death).”
Falax Blades (Page 219)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Ahzek Ahriman (Page 270)
Balance Change
Add the Psychic Mastery (2) Special Rule to the unit’s profile.
Psy-Automata Unit Sub-type (Page 267)
Balance Change
Replace the third bullet point with the following:
“Models with the Psy-Automata Unit Sub-type may declare a charge in
the same turn in which they shoot a Rapid-Fire Weapon.”
90
Corrupted (Page 307)
Errata
Replace the last sentence to read as follows:
“No model unit that does not also have the Corrupted Unit Sub-type or
the Daemon Unit Type may join a unit that includes one or more
models with the Corrupted Unit Sub-type.”
Dark Channelling (Page 306)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of Dark Channelling to read as follows:
“Any unit with the Traitor Allegiance, and the Infantry, Dreadnought,
or Cavalry Unit Type as well as the Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers)
special rule may be upgraded with Dark Channelling for +25 points per
unit. All models in a unit with this upgrade gain the Corrupted Unit
Sub-type.”
Tainted Weapon (Page 306)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of Tainted Weapon to read as follows:
“Any model with the Character Sub-type, and the Legiones Astartes
(Word Bearers) Special Rule may exchange a Power Weapon for a
Tainted Blade, Tainted Axe or Tainted Maul for +10 +5 points each:”
Diabolist (Page 308)
Balance Change
Replace the option to select the Diabolist Consul upgrade to read
as follows:
“A Legion Centurion, Legion Cataphractii Centurion, or Legion
Tartaros Centurion with the Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) Special
Rule and the Traitor Allegiance may be upgraded to a Diabolist:”
Rite of War: The Dark Brethren (Page 305)
FAQ
The bonuses gained from points of Favour from this Rite of War
are applied to unit itself - meaning that if an Independent
Character had joined a unit which was then given the Favour point,
the Independent Character would benefit from the bonuses
provided until they leave the unit - at which point they would no
longer benefit from it.
Similarly, if the Independent Character was given the Favour point
and then joined a unit, the unit would benefit from the bonuses
until the Independent Character leaves the unit.
If an Independent Character was already joined to a unit when a
Favour point was assigned, it should be made clear which of either
the unit or the Independent Character were given the Favour point.
A unit can never benefit from from more than three instances of
Favour of the Dark Gods, and only models in the Detachment with
this Rite of War may gain the benefits from points of Favour.
Unswerving Devotion (Page 304)
Balance Change
Change the wording of the Warlord Trait to read as follows:
“Any friendly units that include at least one model with the Legiones
Astartes (Word Bearers) special rule and have at least one model within
6" of a Warlord with this Trait (including the Warlord himself and any
unit he has joined) automatically pass the first failed Morale check or
Pinning test they are called upon to make each turn. In addition, an
army whose Warlord has this Trait may make an additional Reaction
during the opposing players Shooting phase as long as the Warlord has
not been removed as a casualty.”
Garviel Loken (Page 295)
Balance Change
Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Errata
Replace the wording of the Born Survivor Special Rule to read as
follows:
“The first time in any battle when a model with this Special Rule is
reduced to 0 Wounds for any reason or otherwise removed from play as
a casualty, the Controlling Player must immediately make a Leadership
test for that model. If the Test is failed then the model is removed as a
casualty as normal, but if the Test is passed then the Warlord model is
not removed as a casualty, but instead remains in play and regains D3
Wounds.”
Reaver Attack Squad (Page 292)
Balance Change
Change the cost of Power Weapons to +5 points each.
Change the cost of Charnabal Weapons to +5 points each.
Add the Outflank Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Maloghurst the Twisted (Page 293)
Balance Change
Add the Broken Soul Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Justaerin Terminator Squad (Page 290)
Balance Change
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Justaerin Terminator Squad may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus
Carrier as a Dedicated Transport as long as it numbers no more than 5
models or a unit of any size may take a Legion Land Raider Spartan
as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this way, a transport does not use
up an additional Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still
be paid for as part of the army.”
Rite of War: Black Reaving (Page 283)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Effects section of this Rite of
War:
“The Deep Strike Special Rule conferred by this Rite of War is also
conferred to any models with the Character Sub-type that join a unit
given it by the Rite of War.
The Outflank Special Rule conferred by any source is also conferred to
any models with the Character Sub-type that join a unit which
possesses it in a Detachment using this Rite of War.”
Horus Lupercal (Pages 286 - 287)
FAQ
The Master of Weapons Special Rule would normally prevent a
model striking Horus Lupercal in close combat on a roll of 2 or 3. If
a model has a Special Rule or other ability that would allow it to
modify its close combat hit rolls, this would allow them to hit
Horus Lupercal on a lower roll.
91
Rite of War: Coils of the Hydra (Page 333)
Balance Change
In contravention to the GW FAQ, you may select up to three
different units via the Rewards of Treachery Special Rule, but these
must all have the same variant of the Legiones Astartes Special Rule
(for example, Legiones Astartes (Iron Warriors)) on their unit
profile.
Any units selected via the Rewards of Treachery Special Rule
change their allegiance to match that of the Detachment they are
taken in.
Everywhere and Nowhere (Page 337)
FAQ
If Alpharius has been selected as the Leader of a Retinue of any
kind, the unit selected in this manner does not count towards the 3
unit limit for this rule.
The Power of the Word (Page 311)
Errata
Replace the first sentence to read as follows:
“Any unit with the Legion Command Squad, Legion Cataphractii
Command Squad or Legion Tartaros Command Squad Retinue
Special Rule selected as a Retinue Squad with Lorgar as its Leader gains
the Fearless and Feel No Pain (4+ ) Special Rules.”
Alpharius (Page 336)
Balance Change
Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Add a Nuncio-Vox to this unit’s wargear.
Lernaean Terminator Squad (Page 338)
Balance Change
Change the cost of Power Fists to +5 points each.
Change the cost of Chainfists to +10 points each.
Exodus (Page 340)
Balance Change
Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Argel Tal (Page 318)
FAQ
This model counts as having a Legion Warhawk Jump Pack for
rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.
92
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
LEGACIES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:LEGIONESASTARTES
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Legion Indomitus Terminator Squad (Page 17)
Balance Change
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as follows:
“A Legion Indomitus Terminator Squad may take a Legion Land Raider
Proteus Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport
as long as it numbers no more than 5 models. A unit of any size may
take a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken
this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation
slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.”
Legion Castra Ferrum Dreadnought Talon (Page 13)
Balance Change
Increase the base points cost of the unit to 150 Points.
Change the cost per additional model to 150 points per model.
Replace the option to purchase a Multi-Melta for +20 points for an
option to purchase a Gravis Melta Cannon for +15 points.
Legion Nullificator Squad (Pages 11 - 12)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the Hexagrammatic Wards Special Rule to
read as follows:
“Any roll To Wound for an attack made with a Psychic Weapon against
a model with this special rule suffers a penalty of -1. When a model
with this Special Rule suffers a wound from a Psychic Weapon or a
Psychic Power, or from any attack made by a model with the Daemon
or Corrupted Unit Type or Sub-type, the model may re-roll any failed
Invulnerable Saves it makes.”
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Legion Nullificator Squad may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus
Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport as
long as it numbers no more than 5 models. A unit of any size may take
a Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this
way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot,
but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.”
Legion Spatha Attack Bike Squadron (Page 15)
Balance Change
Add the Support Squad, Hit & Run, and Outflank Special Rules to
this unit’s entry.
Change the Wounds Characteristic on the Legion Spatha Attack
Bike profile to be 3.
Change the upgrade cost for Multi-Meltas to +15 points.
Legion Tarantula Sentry Gun Battery (Page 16)
Balance Change
Increase the base points cost of the unit to 60 Points.
Remove the Bulky (4) Special Rule from this unit’s entry.
Add the Immobile Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Replace the wording of the Sentry Protocols Special Rule entirely to
read as follows:
“A model with this Special Rule must target the closest enemy model as
per the following limitations and restrictions:
- Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 7 or more must target
the nearest enemy model with the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought
Sub-types.
- Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 6 or below must target
the nearest enemy model without the Vehicle, Automata, or
Dreadnought Sub-types.
- Any model armed with a weapon with the Skyfire Special Rule must
target the nearest enemy model with the Flyer Sub-type.
If no such target is in range, then the Controlling Player may select a
target as normal.”
Change the profile of the Tarantula Sentry Gun to the below:
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
Tarantula Sentry Gun - - 3 5 5 2 - - 5 3+
Legion Land Raider Phobos (Page 22)
Balance Change
In any instance where you may choose to select a Legion Land
Raider Proteus Carrier, such as as a Dedicated Transport or via a Rite
of War, you may instead choose to select a Legion Land Raider
Phobos instead.
Legion Spatha Attack Bike (Page 15)
Balance Change
Add the following to the effects of the Legion Spatha Attack Bike
wargear:
“A model equipped with a Legion Spatha Attack Bike must change its
Unit Type to Cavalry, keeping any Unit Sub-types it previously had,
and may choose to gain the Skirmish Unit Sub-type. In addition, the
model must change its Movement Characteristic to 14 and gains the
Firing Protocols (2), Battle-Hardened (1), Skilled Rider, and Hammer of
Wrath (1) Special Rules.”
Legion Primus Nullificator Consul (Page 9)
Balance Change
A model with this Legiones Consularis upgrade increases his
Leadership Characteristic to 10.
Change the first line of the Wargear section to read as follows:
“A Legion Primus Nullificator must may exchange their Power Weapon
for an Aether-Shock Maul at no additional points cost.”
Legion Land Raider Achilles (Page 23)
Balance Change
Replace the Hull (Front) Mounted Achillus Quad Launcher with a
Hull (Front) Mounted Quad Launcher (with Frag, Shatter, Splinter,
and Incendiary shells).
93
Legion Malcador Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 29)
Balance Change
Replace all references to ‘Side (X) Mounted’ weapons with ‘Hull (X)
Mounted’ instead.
Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Replace the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Gravis
Lascannon for an option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted
Twin-Linked Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons
Profiles Section.
Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon
and One Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon to +15 points.
Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Front) Mounted Demolisher
Cannon to +35 points.
Replace the wording of the Independent Fire Control Special Rule
entirely, to read as follows:
“A model with this Special Rule may remain stationary, move at
Combat Speed, or Cruising Speed, and still fire all of its weapons as
though it had the Super-Heavy Sub-type. Note that this does not grant
any of the other benefits of the Super-Heavy Sub-type.”
Legion Minotaur Battery (Page 30)
Balance Change
Replace the Hull Centreline (Rear) Mounted Twin-Linked
Earthshaker cannon with a Centreline (Rear) Mounted Earthshaker
Battery - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Legion Caestus Assault Ram (Page 28)
Balance Change
Change the Movement Characteristic on the Legion Caestus Assault
Ram’s profile to be 18”.
Decrease the Transport Capacity on the Legion Caestus Assault
Ram’s profile to be 12.
Add the Afterburner, Caestus Prow, and Inertia Suppression Clamps
Special Rules to this unit’s entry.
Legion Whirlwind Squadron (Page 27)
Balance Change
Add the Bombard Sub-type to the Unit Type.
Replace the Whirlwind Missile Launcher Talonis HE Missile’s profile
with the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Legion Stormblade (Page 31)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 500 Points.
Replace the Plasma Blastgun’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Bolter to this unit’s profile.
Legion Basilisk Squadron (Page 25)
Balance Change
Replace the Earthshaker Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Legion Medusa Squadron (Page 26)
Balance Change
Replace the Medusa Mortar’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Legion Baneblade (Page 35)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points.
Replace the Baneblade Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Legion Stormsword (Page 39)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 525 Points.
Replace the Hellhammer Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Legion Stormlord (Page 37)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points.
Increase the Transport Capacity to 32 models.
Add the Tank Desant (10) and Assault Vehicle Special Rules to this
unit’s entry.
Replace the Vulcan Mega-Bolter’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Legion Shadowsword (Page 38)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 550 Points.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Legion Banehammer (Page 36)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 500 Points.
Increase the Transport Capacity to 22 models.
Add the Tank Desant (10) Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Replace the Tremor Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
94
Nomus Rhy’Tan (Page 68)
Balance Change
Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on Nomus Rhy’Tan’s
profile to be 6.
Add the It Will Not Die (5+) Special Rule to this Character’s entry.
Add the following to Nomus Rhy’Tan’s profile:
“In addition, all models in a unit joined by Nomus Rhy’tan gain the
Stubborn and Hatred (Everything) Special Rules.”
Change the first sentence of the Keeper of the Keys Warlord Trait
to read as follows:
“Any model with the Dreadnought Unit Type and the Legiones Astartes
(Salamanders) Special Rule within 6” of a Warlord with this Trait in
the same detachment as a Warlord with this Trait may add +2" to
their Charge Distance.”
Replace Darkstar Falling’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Fulmentarus Terminator Squad (Page 63)
Balance Change
Replace the Hellfire Plasma Missile’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Cassian Dracos Reborn (Page 67)
Balance Change
Add an Iron Halo and Nuncio Vox to Cassian Dracos Reborn’s
Wargear.
Add the Ferromantic Invulnerability Special Rule to Cassian Dracos
Reborn’s Profile.
Add the Cybertheurgist and Character Sub-types to Cassian Dracos
Reborn’s profile.
Change the second paragraph of the Avatar of the Sacred Flames
Special Rule to read as follows:
“In addition, if Cassian Dracos Reborn is selected as the army’s Warlord
in a Blackshields Detachment, you can include Salamanders Adherents
Squads as part of that Detachment as Elites Choices. If you do so,
replace their Legiones Astartes (Salamanders) Special Rule with the
Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule, the unit gains the Line
Sub-type, and remove their Support Squad Special Rule.”
Change Cassian Dracos Reborn’s profile to the below:
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
Cassian Dracos Reborn 6 6 5 6 7 6 4 4 10 2+
Honoured Telemechrus (Page 62)
Balance Change
Honoured Telemechrus grants the benefit of a Legion Vexilla to all
friendly Legiones Astartes (Ultramarines) units which have at least
one model within 12”.
Add the Character Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Firewing Enigmatus Cabal (Pages 52 - 53)
Errata
Remove the following sentence from the Blade Charge Special
Rule:
“This does not replace or improve any other versions of the Rending (X)
special rule already possessed by the unit.”
Excindio Battle Automata (Page 54)
FAQ
For the purposes of the Dreadnought Transport Special Rule, a
model with this Special Rule is counted as having the Dreadnought
Unit Type.
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 300 Points.
Replace the Inbuilt Refractor Field Wargear on this model with an
Atomantic Deflector. When the model loses its last wound,
increase the explosion range by +4”.
In addition, add the following to the bullet points of effects
provided by the Shackled Artificia Unit Type:
“Any attacks made against a unit with the Shackled Artificia Unit Type
are resolved as if the model had the Dreadnought Unit Type, for the
purposes of resolving these attacks. Note that this affects any Wargear,
Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.”
Legion Praetor Armoured Assault Launcher (Page 43)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points.
Replace the Praetor Launcher on this unit’s profile with a
Centreline Mounted Praetor Launcher - see profile in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Legion Crassus Armoured Assault Transport (Page 42)
Balance Change
Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of the Crassus
Assault Transport to 48.
Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Farith Redloss (Page 45)
Balance Change
Add the Consul (Siege Breaker) Special Rule to Farith Redloss’ profile.
Legion Macharius Omega Heavy Tank (Page 41)
Balance Change
Move this unit from a Lord of War selection to a Heavy Support
selection.
Add the Exposed Compartment Special Rules to this unit’s profile.
Locutarus Storm Squad (Page 65)
Balance Change
Change the cost per additional model to 30 points per model.
Legion Macharius Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 40)
Balance Change
Move this unit from a Lord of War selection to a Heavy Support
selection.
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 350 Points, and the cost
to add an additional model to 335 Points.
Change the number of additional models that can be included in
the unit to 2.
Replace the Macharius Battlecannon, Macharius Vanquisher
Battlecannon, and Macharius Rotary Bolt Cannon’s profiles with
the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
95
Xiaphas Jurr (Page 69)
Balance Change
Add the It Will Not Die (5+) Special Rule to this Character’s entry.
Add the following to Xiaphas Jurr’s profile:
“In addition, all models in a unit joined by Xiaphas Jurr gain the
Stubborn and Hatred (Everything) Special Rules.”
Change the first sentence of the Beacon of Hope Warlord Trait to
read as follows:
“In addition, if Xiaphas Jurr is selected as the army’s Warlord in a
Blackshields Detachment, you can include Salamanders Adherents
Squads as part of that Detachment as Elites Choices. If you do so,
replace their Legiones Astartes (Salamanders) Special Rule with the
Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule, the unit gains the Line
Sub-type, and remove their Support Squad Special Rule.”
Rylanor The Unyielding (Page 73)
Balance Change
Add the It Will Not Die (5+), Hatred (Traitors), and Shattered
Legionary Special Rules to Rylanor The Unyielding’s Profile.
Add the Character Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Rylanor The Unyielding grants the benefit of a Legion Vexilla to all
friendly Legiones Astartes (Emperor’s Children) units which have at
least one model within 12”.
Strike Captain Alvarex Maun (Page 71)
Balance Change
Add a Refractor Field to this unit’s profile.
The Tormentor (Page 74)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 750 Points.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Replace the Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Bolter in
this unit’s entry with a Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked
Shrapnel Cannon.
Replace the Hull (Left) Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Bolter and
Hull (Right) Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Bolter in this unit’s
entry with two Sponson Mounted Twin-Linked Shrapnel Cannons.
Replace the Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon and Hull (Right)
Mounted Lascannon in this unit’s entry with two Sponson
Mounted Lascannons.
Erasmus Golg (Page 76)
Errata
Add the Traitor Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Iron Havocs (Page 75)
Balance Change
Replace the Ferrum Occularis Wargear wording to read as follows:
“Shooting Attacks made using a weapon with the Heavy type by a
model with a Ferrum Occularis gain the Sunder Special Rule, as long as
the attack is not made as part of a Reaction or a Snap Shot.”
Marshal Durak Rask (Page 87)
Balance Change
Change the Wounds Characteristic on Marshal Durak Rask’s
profile to be 3.
Change the ‘One Phosphex Bomb’ on Marshal Durak Rask’s profile
to ‘Three Phosphex Bombs’.
Kheron Ophion of the Kyroptera (Page 80)
Balance Change
Replace the Power Armour on this unit’s profile with Artificer
Armour.
Reaver Aggressor Squad (Page 89)
Balance Change
Change the cost of Power Weapons to +5 points each.
Change the cost of Charnabal Weapons to +5 points each.
Autilon Skorr (Page 90)
Errata
Remove the Traitor Special Rule from this unit’s entry.
Vengeance Weapon Battery (Page 93)
Balance Change
Add the Hardwired Defences Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Advanced Reaction: Void Shield Envelope (Page 94)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the Void Shield Envelope Advanced
Reaction to read as follows:
“This Advanced Reaction may be made during the Shooting phase
whenever an enemy unit targets a friendly unit that has at least half of
its models within 6” of a friendly Void Shield Generator with a Shooting
Attack, excluding friendly units that include any models with the
Monstrous, Gargantuan, Knight, Titan, Super-Heavy or Flyer SubTypes. Before the Active player has resolved any Hit rolls, the Reactive
player may choose to expend one of their Reactions for that Phase to
have the unit targeted by the Shooting Attack gain the Shrouded (4+)
Special Rule an Invulnerable Save of 4+ until the end of the Shooting
phase. Note that this Advanced Reaction does not improve nor replace
any existing instances of the Shrouded (X) Special Rule Invulnerable
saves that a unit may have. The unit that has gained the Shrouded (4+)
Special Rule an Invulnerable Save as a result of this Reaction does not
count as having made a Reaction, and may itself make a Reaction
provided it would otherwise be able to do so, and the Reactive player
has sufficient Reaction allotment remaining in that Phase.”
Hammerfall Bunker (Page 99)
Balance Change
Add the Hardwired Defences and Power of the Machine Spirit
Special Rules to this unit’s profile.
Replace the Hammerfall Strike Special Rule’s wording entirely to
read as follows:
“Rather than deploying this Fortification as per the usual rules for
Fortifications, you may choose instead to assign it to a Drop Pod
Assault or Deep Strike Assault as normal. If assigned in this manner to
one of the specified deployment methods, the Hammerfall Bunker gains
the Orbital Assault Vehicle, Inertial Guidance System, and Deep Strike
Special Rules. This does allow you to place the Hammerfall Bunker
outside of your Deployment Zone. Note that this is an exception to the
normal rules for Fortifications, and if assigned in this way, you may
choose to select a Hammerfall Bunker in a Rite of War: Drop Pod
Assault detachment.”
Shabran Darr (Page 83)
Balance Change
Add the Shattered Legionary Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Crysos Mortug (Page 85)
Balance Change
Add the The Black Shield Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
96
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
LIBERMECHANICUM
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Mechanicum Acastus Knight Asterius (Page 55)
Balance Change
Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted.
Replace the two Arm Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Conversion
Beam Cannons with two Arm Mounted Conversion Destructors -
See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Ordinatus Ulator (Page 56)
Balance Change
Add Searchlights to this unit’s wargear.
Ordinatus Aktaeus (Page 57)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 700 points.
Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Archmagos Anacharis Scoria (Page 62)
Balance Change
Add the Stubborn Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Forbidden Protocols (Page 62)
Errata
Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait:
“Note that this Warlord Trait can affect a unit which Archmagos
Anacharis Scoria has joined, even though this would normally not be
permitted as the unit would no longer be a unit containing only
Automata.”
Rites of the Beast (Page 63)
Errata
Replace this Special Rule to read as follows:
“Anacharis Scoria has the Artificia Machina, Artificia Cybernetica,
Ephemera Incursus, and Anima Malefica Cybertheurgic Arcana, and
has all Rites and weapons that are part of those Arcana.
In addition, Archmagos Anacharis Scoria provides all effects, benefits,
and rules (and gains any wargear, Special Rules, or other effects
applicable to himself) that an Archmagos with the Cybernetica
Arcana would to the detachment he is in.”
Karacnos Assault Tank (Page 48)
Balance Change
Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted.
Thanatar Siege-Automata Maniple (Page 46)
Balance Change
Change the value of the Hammer of Wrath Special Rule on this
unit’s profile to Hammer of Wrath (3).
Add the following to the wargear section on the unit’s profile:
One Shock Charger (Thanatar-Calix only)
Scyllax Guardian-Automata Maniple (Page 36)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 100 points.
Add the Feel No Pain (5+) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Arlatax Battle-Automata Maniple (Page 40)
Balance Change
Replace the two Power Blade Arrays with in-built Light
Autocannons on this unit’s profile with two Arlatax Power Claws
with in-built Light Autocannons - See the Panoptica Weapons
Profiles section.
Change the upgrade cost for an Arc Scourge to +10 points.
Ursarax Cohort (Page 41)
Balance Change
Change the Strength Characteristic on the unit’s profile to be 5.
Change the second bullet point in the unit’s options to read as
follows:
“For every three models in the unit, one Any Ursarax may exchange
their two lightning claws for:”
Adsecularis Tech-Thrall Covenant (Page 34)
Balance Change
Change the value of the Armour Save on this unit’s profile to be 5+.
Myrmidon Secutor Host (Page 32)
Balance Change
Change the upgrade cost for Graviton Guns to +10 points.
Change the upgrade cost for Phased Plasma Fusils to +15 points.
Warlord Battle Titan (Page 72)
Balance Change
Change the Void Shields (6) Special Rule on this unit’s profile to
Void Shields (8).
High Techno-arcana: Stataraga (Page 61)
Errata
Add the following to the end of this Special Rule:
“In addition, when selected as a Troops Choice in a Questoris Knights
Detachment, Archmagos Draykavac gains the Patris Cybernetica
Special Rule.”
Advanced Reaction: Scornful Fire (Page 17)
FAQ / Balance Change
To match the order of operations found in all other Reactions and
Advanced Reactions, any Shooting Attacks made as part of this
Advanced Reaction are resolved after all To Hit and To Wound
rolls, and Armour Saves are made, but before any Damage
Mitigation rolls are made or casualties removed by the Shooting
Attack that triggered this Advanced Reaction.
97
Questoris Knight Styrix (Page 84)
Balance Change
Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile.
Questoris Knight Magaera (Page 85)
Balance Change
Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile.
0-1 Questoris Knight Atrapos (Page 86)
Balance Change
Add a Flare Shield to this unit’s profile.
0-1 Questoris Acastus Knight Asterius (Page 87)
Balance Change
Change the Karacnos Mortar Battery to be Centreline Mounted.
Replace the two Arm Mounted Twin-Linked Heavy Conversion
Beam Cannons with two Arm Mounted Conversion Destructors -
See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Armiger Unit Type (Page 90)
Errata
Add the following to the Armiger Unit Type:
“A unit with the Armiger Unit Type cannot be destroyed as a result of a
Sweeping Advance made by a unit with the Infantry Unit Type.
A unit with the Armiger Unit Type automatically passes any Pinning
tests they would be required to make.
Any attacks made against a unit with the Armiger Unit Type are
resolved as if the Armigers have the Dreadnought Unit Type, for the
purposes of resolving these attacks. Note that this affects any Wargear,
Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.”
Paragon Unit Sub-type (Page 91)
Balance Change
Add the following to the Paragon Unit Sub-type:
“In contravention to the GW FAQ, a unit with the Paragon Sub-type
may make Reactions, ignoring restrictions from any Unit Type or Subtype that would prevent it from doing so, as long as the Controlling
Player has Reaction allotment available.”
Household Ranks (Page 88)
Balance Change
Add the following to the Household Ranks section:
“If an Imperial Knight selects any Household Rank, Dark Blessing, or
Holy Benediction (other than Aspirant, Seneschal, Heedless Slaughter,
Conqueror of Worlds), it increases its Hull Points Characteristic by +1.
A Knight which selects the Seneschal Household Rank or Conqueror of
Worlds Dark Blessing instead increases its Hull Points Characteristic
by +2.”
Implacable (Page 89)
Balance Change
Change the wording of the Implacable Special Rule to read as
follows:
“An attack targeting a model with this Special Rule reduces the number
of Hull Points of damage inflicted from any attack by -1, to a minimum
of 1, and reduces all rolls on the vehicle damage table by 1.”
Acastus Knight Porphyrion (Page 83)
Balance Change
Replace the Two Hull (Front) Mounted Twin-Linked Magna
Lascannons on this unit’s profile with Two Hull (Front) Mounted
Magna Lascannons.
Lacyraemarta (Page 99)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Opus Viscera Sub-Heading:
“This ability may not be used on any unit which is locked in combat,
and may only be used on units composed entirely of models from the
Mechanicum Faction.”
Cybernetica Exortus (Cybertheurgic Rite) (Page 94)
FAQ
As the ability to ignore a Wound inflicted upon the unit happens
before any allocation is done, Special Rules like Brutal (X) and so on
would not trigger on a Wound so discarded.
Balance Change
Replace the first bullet point to read as follows:
“When making a Charge roll for the unit in the same turn as this Rite is
used, as long as the unit contains at least one model with the
Automata Unit Type, roll an additional dice and discard the lowest
rolled dice before determining the results of the Charge roll.”
Replace the third bullet point to read as follows:
“The unit may add either +1 to its Ballistic Skill or Weapon Skill
Characteristics (to a maximum of 5) for the remainder of the
Shooting phase in which this power is used until the end of the
Controlling Player’s current turn.”
Ephemera Perfidiae (Cybertheurgic Rite) (Page 95)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of this Cybertheurgic Rite to read as follows:
“Instead of making a Shooting Attack, a Cybertheurgist with this
Cybertheurgic Rite may select a single enemy unit with a model within
12" that is entirely composed of models with the Vehicle, Dreadnought,
or Automata Unit Type (but not any models with the Super-Heavy,
Lumbering, Titan, or Knight Sub-types). The Cybertheurgist’s
Controlling Player may immediately make a Shooting Attack as if they
controlled the chosen unit – this Shooting Attack may target any unit
that is considered an enemy unit by the Cybertheurgist’s Controlling
Player and is made as Snap Shots. The Cybertheurgist may choose to
make a Cybertheurgy check before making this Shooting Attack, and if
successful the Shooting Attack is made using the Cybertheurgist’s BS
and is not made as Snap Shots. If the Check is failed then the
Cybertheurgist suffers Cybertheurgic Feedback and no Shooting Attack
is made. An enemy unit used to make a Shooting Attack with this Rite
may attack normally in its Controlling Player’s turn and gains the
Hatred (Cybertheurgists) Special Rule for the rest of the battle.”
Ephemera Exocluo (Cybertheurgic Weapon) (Page 95)
Balance Change
Replace the Blind Special Rule on this Cybertheurgic Weapon’s
profile with the Sensor Flare Special Rule.
Armiger and Moirax Talons (Page 102)
FAQ
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule:
“Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as
its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and
similar rules.”
Binaric Stratagems (Page 102)
Balance Change
It should be noted that if a model is not equipped with a Kyropatris
Field Generator, they may not claim the benefits of any Special Rule
or effect provided by the Binaric Stratagems Special Rule - even if
these Special Rules or effects would normally be conferred, such as
the Preferred Enemy (X) Special Rule.
98
Laser Blaster (Page 117)
Balance Change
Replace the Laser Blaster’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Belicosa Volcano Cannon (Page 117)
Balance Change
Replace the Belicosa Volcano Cannon’s profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Nemesis Volcano Cannon (Page 117)
Balance Change
Replace the Nemesis Volcano Cannon’s profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Vulcan Mega-Bolter (Page 114)
Balance Change
Replace the Vulcan Mega-Bolter’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Avenger Gatling Cannon (Page 114)
Balance Change
Replace the Avenger Gatling Cannon’s profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Rapid-Fire Battle Cannon (Page 113)
Balance Change
Replace the Rapid-Fire Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Mori Quake Cannon (Page 113)
Balance Change
Replace the Mori Quake Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Nemesis Quake Cannon (Page 113)
Balance Change
Replace the Nemesis Quake Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Thanatar Maniple (Page 110)
FAQ
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule:
“Once a unit with this Special Rule has separated, each model counts as
its own unit for the purposes of Victory Points, Units Destroyed, and
similar rules.”
Void Shields (X) (Page 111)
FAQ
When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void
Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are
deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For
example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack
successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three
shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded.
It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special
Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the
Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation
Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X)
Special Rule.
Pride of Place (Page 106)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Pride of Place Special Rule:
“A model with this Special Rule may ignore the restrictions applied by it
if the Unit with the Transport Sub-type they are attempting to Embark
onto also has the Super-Heavy Sub-type. In addition, a model with this
Special Rule gains the Bulky (X) Special Rule, where X is equal to the
model’s starting Wounds Characteristic.”
Reactor Overload (Page 106)
FAQ
Any Wounds or Hull Points of Damage caused by this Special Rule
are only resolved once the Shooting Attack has been fully resolved.
Paragon of Metal (Page 106)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Paragon of Metal Special Rule:
“A model which has this Special Rule changes their Armour Save to 2+.”
God-Engine (Page 104)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the God-Engine Special Rule:
“In addition, all units wholly within 18” of a model with this Special
Rule and which have a Kyropatris Field Generator gain the Line
Sub-type.”
Feudal Hierarchy (Page 104)
Errata
Change the Feudal Hierarchy Special Rule to read as follows:
“A single Detachment may not include both an Archmagos Prime and
an Archmagos Prime on Abeyant only ever include a single model with
this Special Rule.”
Disruption (X) (Page 103)
Balance Change
Change the Disruption (X) Special Rule to read as follows:
“To Hit rolls of the value X indicated made by a weapon with this
Special Rule cause an automatic Glancing Hit against models with the
Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration, and an
automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought, Automata, or
Armiger Unit Types, instead of rolling To Wound.
On weapons which do not roll to Hit, such as Template or Blast
Weapons, a D6 should be rolled for every applicable target - a roll of
X or higher causes an automatic Glancing Hit against models with
the Vehicle Unit Type instead of rolling for Armour Penetration, and
an automatic Wound against models with the Dreadnought,
Automata, or Armiger Unit Types.
Only Invulnerable Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls may be taken
against Wounds or Hull Points of damage inflicted automatically by
this Special Rule.”
Destructor (Page 103)
Balance Change
Change the Destructor Special Rule to read as follows:
“Any model which suffers an unsaved Wound or Hull Point loss from a
weapon with this Special Rule does not suffer only one Wound or Hull
Point of damage, but instead suffers D6 Wounds or Hull Points of
damage instead, with all of the Wounds or Hull Points inflicted using
the same AP and special rules as that of the initial Wound. Roll to
save against each Wound or Hull Point of damage inflicted
separately, but note that Wounds or Hull Points of damage caused in
excess of a given model’s remaining Wounds or Hull Points do not
spill over to other models and are lost.
In addition, if the target of this attack is a model with the Knight,
Titan, Gargantuan, Super-Heavy Vehicle, or Building or Fortification
Unit Type, or the Monstrous Unit Sub-type, increase the number of
Wounds suffered or Hull Points lost to 2D6.”
Phaeton Autocannon (Page 114)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profiles with the ones found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
99
Reaper Chainblade (Page 120)
Balance Change
Replace the Reaper Chainblade’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Reaper Chainfist (Page 120)
Balance Change
Replace the Reaper Chainfist’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Reaper Chainsword (Page 120)
Balance Change
Replace the Reaper Chainsword’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Las-Impulsor (Melee) (Page 121)
Balance Change
Replace the Las-Impulsor’s Melee profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Atrapos Phasecutter (Melee) (Page 121)
Balance Change
Replace the Atrapos Phasecutter’s Melee profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Shock Charger (Page 123)
Balance Change
Replace the Shock Charger’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Graviton Ram (Melee) (Page 121)
Balance Change
Replace the Graviton Ram’s Melee profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Thunderstrike Gauntlet (Page 122)
Balance Change
Replace the Thunderstrike Gauntlet’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Power Blade Array (Page 122)
Balance Change
Replace the Power Blade Array’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Shock Lance (Melee) (Page 123)
Balance Change
Replace the Shock Lance’s Melee profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Ordinatus Dispersion Shield (Page 126)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“In subsequent Game Turns after the first, the Ordinatus Dispersion
Shield counts as a Flare Shield.”
Ionic Deflector (Page 126)
Balance Change
Change the wargear’s description to read as follows:
“A model with an Ionic Deflector gains a 5+ Invulnerable Save, and any
model with an Ionic Deflector and a Wounds Characteristic gains the
Eternal Warrior Special Rule that suffers an unsaved Wound with the
Instant Death Special Rule is not immediately removed as a casualty,
but instead loses D3 Wounds instead of one for each unsaved Wound
with the Instant Death Special Rule inflicted on it.
In addition, when a model with an Ionic Deflector loses its last Wound
or Hull Point, but before it is removed as a casualty or replaced with a
Wreck, all models both friendly and enemy within D6+3" suffer an
automatic Hit at Str 8, AP -.”
Scyllax Combat Array (Page 120)
Balance Change
Replace the Scyllax Combat Array’s Dismember profile with the one
found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Terrebrax Rocket Battery (Page 118)
Balance Change
Replace the Terrebrax Rocket Battery’s profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Volkite Chieorovile (Page 119)
Balance Change
Replace the Volkite Chieorovile’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Volkite Veuglaire (Page 119)
Balance Change
Replace the Volkite Veuglaire’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Stratos Thrusters (Page 130)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“On a Game Turn in which a model armed with Stratos Thrusters
activates them, they may elect to gain the Skyfire Special Rule for all
Ranged Weapons they are armed with. In addition, a model equipped
with Stratos Thrusters also gains the Deep Strike Special Rule. A model
with an activated set of Stratos Thrusters may move over both friendly
and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its
Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and
ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain
they move over as they make their move, though they must still take
Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move
in terrain that would require them to do so.”
Utan Jump Booster (Page 130)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“A model with an activated Utan Jump Booster may move over both
friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its
Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and
ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain
they move over as they make their move, though they must still take
Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move
in terrain that would require them to do so.”
Incunabulan Jet Pack (Page 130)
Balance Change
Add the following sentence to the end of the first paragraph to read
as follows:
“This extra move can only be made in the Controlling Player's own
Shooting Phase.”
Add the following to the end of the wargear’s description:
“A model with an activated Incunabulan Jet Pack may move over both
friendly and enemy models or units without penalty - but must end its
Movement at least 1" away from any model from another unit, and
ignores the effects of any Difficult, Dangerous, or Impassable Terrain
they move over as they make their move, though they must still take
Dangerous Terrain Tests as normal should they start or end their move
in terrain that would require them to do so. It should be noted that, for
the purposes of Reactions, an Incunabulan Jet Pack is classed as having
being activated for the purposes of moving over any models or terrain.”
100
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
LEGACIES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:MECHANICUM
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Inar Satarael (Page 2)
Balance Change
Remove the Anti-Grav Sub-type from this unit's profile.
Add the Born of Steel Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Adsecularis Tech-Thrall Certus Covenant (Page 3)
Balance Change
Change the value of the Armour Save on this unit’s profile to be 5+.
Macrocarid Explorator (Page 7)
Balance Change
Increase the Movement Characteristic of this unit to 12, and the
Hull Points Characteristic to 6.
Add the Reinforced Sub-type to this unit's entry.
Ordo Reductor Minotaur Battery (Page 10)
Balance Change
Replace the Hull Centreline (Rear) Mounted Twin-Linked
Earthshaker cannon with a Centreline (Rear) Mounted Earthshaker
Battery - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Errata
Replace the option to select a Hull (Front) Mounted Hunter-Killer
Missile in this unit's options with a Hull (Rear) Mounted HunterKiller Missile.
Ordo Reductor Artillery Tank Battery (Pages 8-9)
Balance Change
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 13.
Add the Reinforced and Bombard Sub-types to this unit's entry.
Replace the option to select a Turret Mounted Gravis Melta
Cannon Array in this unit's options with a Turret Mounted Melta
Cannon Array.
Replace the option to select a Centreline Mounted Medusa Siege
Mortar in this unit's options with a Centreline Mounted Medusa
Mortar.
Add a heading above the profile for the Demolisher Cannon to read
as follows:
"All weapons listed here are counted as 'Artillery' weapons for those
rules which affect such weapons."
Replace the Demolisher Cannon, Mars-Colossus Bombard,
Whirlwind Missile Launcher Talonis HE Missile, Earthshaker
Cannon, and Medusa Mortar’s profiles with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Mechanicum Tarantula Sentry Gun Battery (Page 5)
Balance Change
Remove the Bulky (4) Special Rule from this unit’s entry.
Add the Fearless, Immobile, and Firing Protocols (2) Special Rules
to this unit’s entry.
Change the wording of the Sentry Protocols Special Rule entirely to
read as follows:
“A model with this Special Rule must target the closest enemy model as
per the following limitations and restrictions:
- Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 7 or more must target
the nearest enemy model with the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought
Sub-types.
- Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 6 or below must target
the nearest enemy model without the Vehicle, Automata, or
Dreadnought Sub-types.
- Any model armed with a weapon with the Skyfire Special Rule must
target the nearest enemy model with the Flyer Sub-type.
If no such target is in range, then the Controlling Player may select a
target as normal.”
Change the profile of the Sentry Gun to the below:
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
Sentry Gun - - 3 5 5 2 - - 5 3+
101
102
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
LIBER IMPERIUM
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
0-1 Custodian Tribune (Page 20)
Balance Change
Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Blade for +25 points for
an option to purchase a Paragon Blade for Free.
Replace the option to purchase Meridian Swords for Free for an
option to purchase a Meridian Swords for +35 Points.
Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +30 points for
an option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +10 points.
Custodian Shield Captain (Page 21)
Balance Change
Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Blade for +25 points for
an option to purchase a Paragon Blade for Free.
Replace the option to purchase Meridian Swords for Free for an
option to purchase a Meridian Swords for +35 Points.
Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +30 points for
an option to purchase a Paragon Glaive for +10 points.
Hetaeron Guard Squad (Page 22)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 195 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +60 points.
Replace the Meridian Swords in this unit’s Wargear with a Paragon
Blade.
Replace the option to purchase a Paragon Blade for +25 points for
an option to purchase Meridian Swords for +35 points.
Custodian Venetari Squad (Page 30)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 190 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +60 points.
Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 3.
Custodian Guard Squad (Page 25)
Balance Change
Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 3.
Sentinel Guard Squad (Page 26)
Balance Change
Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 3.
Agamatus Jetbike Squadron (Page 28)
Balance Change
Change the Attacks Characteristic of this unit to 2.
Orion Assault Dropship (Page 35)
Balance Change
Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of this unit to 36.
Caladius Grav-Tank (Page 32)
Balance Change
Replace the Turret Mounted Iliastus Accelerator Cannon in this
unit’s Wargear with Turret Mounted Iliastus Accelerator Cannon
Arrays.
Replace the option to exchange a Turret Mounted Iliastus
Accelerator Cannon for an option to exchange Turret Mounted
Iliastus Accelerator Cannon Arrays for a Turret Mounted Enhanced
Arachnus Blaze Cannon.
Knight Abyssal (Page 44)
Balance Change
Replace the first and second options bullet points to read as
follows:
“A Knight Abyssal may exchange either her Execution blade and/or
Bolt Pistol for one of the following options:”
Knight Centura (Page 45)
Balance Change
Replace the first and second options bullet points to read as
follows:
“A Knight Centura may exchange either her Execution blade and/or
Bolt Pistol for one of the following options:”
Questora Cadre (Page 48)
Balance Change
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill
Characteristic of 4, and a Ballistic Skill Characteristic of 5.
Replace the Vratine Armour in this unit’s Wargear with Artificer
Armour.
Replace the fourth options bullet point to read as follows:
“The entire unit may exchange their Vratine bolters for: Any model in
the unit may exchange their Vratine Bolter for one of the following
options:”
Golden Exemplar (Page 17)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait:
“Furthermore, the first Reaction made in each Game Turn by this
Warlord and any unit he has joined does not use up a point of the
Controlling Player’s Reaction Allotment.”
Silent Fury (Page 47)
Errata
Add the Antigrav Unit Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Add the Firing Protocols (2) Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Weapon & Equipment Upgrades (Various Pages)
Balance Change
If a model equipped with a Lasrifle is eligible to purchase a bayonet
and exchanges their Lasrifle for a Lasgun or Autogun, they may still
purchase a bayonet as normal.
103
Raptora Cadre (Page 50)
Balance Change
Replace the Vratine Armour in this unit’s Wargear with Artificer
Armour.
Kharon Pattern Acquisitor (Page 56)
Balance Change
Replace the option to exchange the Hellion Heavy Cannon Array
for a Multi-Melta to a Gravis Melta Cannon instead.
Eradicator Cadre (Page 53)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 80 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 15 points per model.
Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have a Ballistic Skill
Characteristic of 5.
Change the Eradicator profile on this unit’s entry to have a
Leadership Characteristic of 8.
Change the Eradicator Mistress’ profile on this unit’s entry to have
a Leadership Characteristic of 9.
Add Voidsheen Cloaks to this unit’s Wargear.
Vigilator Cadre (Page 55)
Balance Change
Replace the Silent Sisterhood (Chamber of Oblivion) Special Rule
on this unit’s profile with the Silent Sisterhood (Chamber of
Vigilance) Special Rule.
Pursuer Cadre (Page 58)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 35 points.
Change the upgrade cost for Execution Blades to +5 points.
Pursuit Beasts (Page 59)
Errata
Change the Rage (1) Special Rule to Rage (2).
Solar Auxilia Tercios (Page 68)
FAQ
Wherever a Tercio Organisation chart of any type provides an
‘Either X or Y’ selection you may take those units in any
combination, and are not restricted in taking a single type of unit.
For example, the Auxilia Armoured Support Tercio is 1-3 either
Solar Auxilia Thunderer Siege Tanks Squadrons, Solar Auxilia
Destroyer Tank Hunter Squadrons, or Solar Auxilia Trojan Support
Vehicles; you may take these in any combination, such as one of
each kind of unit.
It should be noted that when a Tercio Reacts, any unit which
cannot React normally may not participate in the Tercio Reaction.
Expurgator Cadre (Page 65)
Balance Change
Replace the option to purchase an Adrathic Destructor for
+20 points for an option to purchase an Adrathic Devastator (with
Suspensor Web) for +20 points.
Cohort Doctrine: Reborn Cohorts (Page 71)
Balance Change
Replace the first Effect bullet point to read as follows:
“All models with the Infantry Unit Type in a Detachment using this
Cohort Doctrine gain a bonus of +1 to their Leadership Characteristic,
to a maximum of Leadership 10, and the Stubborn Special Rule.”
Cohort Doctrine: Armoured Fist Pattern Cohorts (Page 71)
Balance Change
Replace the first Effects bullet point to read as follows:
“A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may select Auxilia Armoured
Tercios as non-Compulsory Troops choices. An Auxilia Armoured Tercio
selected as a Troops choice may only consist of a single unit, which
must be a Solar Auxilia Leman Russ Strike Squadron. Auxilia Armoured
Tercios selected as Compulsory Troop Choices in a Primary
Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine gain the Line Unit Sub-type.”
Add the following to the Effects bullet points:
“The first time in a game that any models with the Infantry Unit Type
Disembark from their own Dedicated Transport, they gain the Relentless
Special Rule until the end of that turn.”
Replace the first Limitation bullet point to read as follows:
“All units composed entirely of models with the Infantry Unit Type must
begin the battle Embarked on a model with the Transport Unit Sub-type
or in Reserves, unless the unit has the Mechanised Unit Sub-type.”
Add the following to the Limitations bullet points:
“A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may not include any models
with a Movement Characteristic of 0 or ‘-’.
An army which includes at least one Detachment using this Cohort
Doctrine may not select any Fortification choices.”
Cohort Doctrine: Penal Pattern Cohorts (Page 72)
Balance Change
Replace the second Effects bullet point to read as follows:
“Any model with the Infantry Unit Type in a Detachment using this
Cohort Doctrine may replace a Lasrifle or Volkite Charger with a
Lascarbine, Lasgun, Stubcarbine, Autorifle, Laspistol and Close
Combat Weapon, or Shotgun for no additional points cost. In addition,
one Auxilia in any Solar Auxilia Rifle Section may replace a Lasrifle with
a Heavy Stubber for +5 points per model.”
Add the following to the Effects bullet points:
“Any model in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may replace a
Close Combat Weapon with a Chainsword for +1 point per model.”
Cohort Doctrine: Feral Pattern Cohorts (Page 72)
Balance Change
Add the following to the Effects bullet points:
“All models with the Infantry Unit Type from a Detachment using this
Cohort Doctrine gain a bonus of +1 to their Weapon Skill, to a
maximum of 5, for the duration of any player turn in which they make a
Successful Charge.
Any model in a Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may replace a
Bayonet with a Chain Bayonet for +1 point per model.
Any model with the Character Unit Sub-type in a Detachment using this
Cohort Doctrine may exchange a Close Combat Weapon for a Chain
Axe for +2 points per model.”
104
Cohort Doctrine: Siege Pattern Cohorts (Page 73)
Balance Change
Add the following to the Effects bullet points:
“Any unit eligible to purchase a Dedicated Transport may instead elect
to purchase a Defence Line without occupying a Fortification Force
Organisation slot, but the cost in points must be counted towards the
army total as usual. A unit which has selected a Defence Line in this
way counts as having purchased a Dedicated Transport.”
Replace the first Effects bullet point to read as follows:
“A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may select Auxilia Artillery
Tercios and Solar Auxilia Armoured Batteries as both Elites and Heavy
Support choices. In addition, they may select Solar Auxilia Artillery
Battery squads as both Heavy Support and Fortification choices.”
Add the following to the Limitations bullet points:
“A Detachment using this Cohort Doctrine may only be selected for an
army’s Primary Detachment.”
Solar Auxilia Legate Marshal (Page 74)
Errata
Add the Field Officer Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Balance Change
Replace the first and second options bullet points to read as
follows:
“A Solar Auxilia Legate Marshal may exchange either their Laspistol
and/or Close Combat Weapon for one of the following options:”
Solar Auxilia Companion Section (Page 78)
Balance Change
Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Add a Close Combat Weapon to the unit’s profile.
Replace the option to purchase a Combi-Weapon for +5 points for
an option to purchase a Minor Combi-Weapon for +5 points, or to
purchase a Magna Combi-Weapon for +10 points.
Solar Auxilia Tactical Command Section (Page 76)
Balance Change
Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Add a Close Combat Weapon to the unit’s profile.
Solar Auxilia Veletaris Command Section (Page 80)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 50 points.
Replace the option to purchase Up to 5 Additional Veletarii for an
option to purchase Up to 15 Additional Veletarii.
Arvus Transport (Page 93)
Balance Change
Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Stubber to this unit’s Wargear.
Solar Auxilia Line Command Section (Page 88)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 40 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 6 points per model.
Change the Leadership Characteristic on the Auxilia Troop
Master’s profile to 8.
Replace the option to purchase Up to 5 Additional Auxilia Veterans
for an option to purchase Up to 15 Additional Auxilia Veterans.
Dracosan Armoured Transport (Page 91)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 135 points.
Change the cost to purchase a Demolisher Cannon to +20 points.
Change the * notation at the bottom of the unit’s entry to read as
follows:
“*Selecting this upgrade reduces the Transport Capacity of the
Dracosan Armoured Transport to 10 12.”
Aurox Transport (Page 92)
Balance Change
Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of the Aurox to 12.
Solar Auxilia Artillery Command Section (Page 100)
Balance Change
Add the Artillery Spotters Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Solar Auxilia Leman Russ Assault Squadron (Page 98)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 160 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 145 points per model.
Change the Rear Armour Characteristic of the Leman Russ
Demolisher to 11.
Solar Auxilia Leman Russ Strike Squadron (Page 97)
Balance Change
Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis
Autocannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted
Exterminator Autocannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles
Section.
Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis
Lascannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis
Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section.
Solar Auxilia Tarantula Sentry Battery (Page 102)
Balance Change
Remove the Bulky (4) Special Rule from this unit’s entry.
Add the Immobile Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Change the profile of the Sentry Gun to the below:
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
Sentry Gun - - 3 5 5 2 - - 5 3+
Solar Auxilia Rapier Battery (Page 103)
Balance Change
Change the Armour Save on the Auxilia Gunner statline to 4+.
Replace all instances of Gravis Multi-Laser Battery on this unit’s
profile and options with Gravis Multi-Laser.
105
Solar Auxilia Malcador Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 104)
Balance Change
Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Replace the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Gravis
Lascannon for an option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted
Twin-Linked Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons
Profiles Section.
Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon
and One Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon to +15 points.
Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Front) Mounted
Demolisher Cannon to +35 points.
Solar Auxilia Malcador Infernus Squadron (Page 108)
Balance Change
Change the Force Organisation Slot of this unit to Heavy Support.
Add the Independent Fire Control Special Rule to this Unit’s
profile.
Solar Auxilia Valdor Tank Destroyer Squadron (Page 106)
Balance Change
Add the Independent Fire Control Special Rule to this Unit’s
profile.
Clade Callidus Assassin (Page 116)
Balance Change
Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3.
Add the following to the end of the Polymorphine wargear’s effects:
“In addition, whilst the effects of Polymorphine are active, the model
equipped with it does not count as a Scoring or Denial Unit.”
Clade Culexus Assassin (Page 115)
Balance Change
Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 5.
Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3.
Replace the Animus Speculum’s Animus Blast profile with the one
found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Clade Vindicare Assassin (Page 114)
Balance Change
Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 3.
Replace the Exitus Rifle’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Solar Auxilia Stormhammer (Page 109)
Balance Change
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Clade Venenum Assassin (Page 122)
Balance Change
Add the Fleet (2) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Replace the Hookfang’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Clade Adamus Assassin (Page 120)
Balance Change
Add the Preferred Enemy (Characters) Special Rule to this unit’s
profile.
Clade Eversor Assassin (Page 118)
Balance Change
Add the No Witnesses Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Clade Vanus Infocyte Assassin (Page 124)
Balance Change
Add the Panoply of the Assassin wargear to this unit’s profile.
Remove the Independent Character Special Rule from the unit’s
profile.
Change the wargear description on the Autotomic Servo-Limbs to
read as follows:
“Once per battle, at the start of any turn, the Controlling Player of a
model with Autotomic Servo-Limbs may choose to grant that model the
Hit & Run Counter-Attack (2) Special Rule until the start of their next
turn.”
Add the following to the Auspectre wargear’s description:
“Note that weapons selected to fire in this manner must still follow the
rules and restrictions placed upon them by their mountings, Unit Types,
or Unit Sub-types, such as allowed targets for reactions in the case of
Knights and Titans only being allowed to react to other Knights and
Titans, Super-heavy Vehicles, Lumbering Flyers or any model with 8 or
more Wounds.”
Assassin Sub-type (Page 128)
Balance Change
Add the following effect to the Assassin Sub-type:
“Models with the Assassin Sub-type gain the Precision Shots (2+),
Precision Strikes (2+), and Predator’s Gaze Special Rules.”
Anathema Sub-type (Page 129)
Balance Change
Change the second sentence of the second bullet point to read as
follows:
“Any Wounds allocated to a model with the Anathema Unit Sub-type
caused by a Force Weapon gain no benefit from the Force, Achean
Force, or Soul Tear Special Rules, but are otherwise resolved as
normal.”
Independent Fire Control (Page 133)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the Independent Fire Control Special Rule
entirely, to read as follows:
“A model with this Special Rule may remain stationary, move at
Combat Speed, or Cruising Speed, and still fire all of its weapons as
though it had the Super-Heavy Sub-type. Note that this does not grant
any of the other benefits of the Super-Heavy Sub-type.”
Demolition Vehicle (Page 131)
Balance Change
Replace the first sentence of the Demolition Vehicle Special Rule to
read as follows:
“When a model with this Special Rule is called upon to make attacks
during an Assault, At Initiative step 10, instead of rolling To Hit as
normal, a model with this Special Rule instead inflicts one automatic
Hit using the profile below on any one enemy model it is in base
contact with (chosen by the player that controls the model with this
Special Rule).”
106
Solar Auxilia Command Tank (Page 136)
Balance Change
Replace the second paragraph of the Special Rule, to read as
follows:
“A Leman Russ Command Tank must be assigned to a Leman Russ
Strike Squadron or a Leman Russ Assault Squadron.
A model with this Special Rule must be assigned to another unit
made up entirely of models with the Vehicle Unit Type purchased as
part of the same Tercio.
An Armoured Legate may nominate a single Auxilia Armoured
Tercio in the same Detachment, and may use their Solar Auxilia
Command Tank Special Rule to join squads within that Tercio as if
they were purchased as part of it.
In addition, a model with this Special Rule may still make Shooting
Attacks as normal in a turn in which they use their Cognis-Signum
to provide +1 Ballistic Skill to all other models in their unit, even
though this would normally be prevented by using this Wargear.”
Earthshaker Cannon (Page 141)
Balance Change
Replace the Earthshaker Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Demolisher Cannon (Page 141)
Balance Change
Replace the Demolisher Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Battle Cannon (Page 140)
Balance Change
Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Stormhammer Cannon (Page 140)
Balance Change
Replace the Stormhammer Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Void Shields (X) (Page 138)
FAQ
When resolving a Shooting Attack against a target with any Void
Shields active, all shots fired as part of that Shooting Attack are
deemed to strike the Void Shields, and not the target unit itself. For
example, if the first two shots of a five-shot Shooting Attack
successfully remove the target’s Void Shields, the remaining three
shots do not strike the original target, but are instead discarded.
It should be noted that, as the Void Shields provided by this Special
Rule are a separate target, they may not claim the benefits of the
Flare Shield wargear item, nor take Saves or Damage Mitigation
Rolls of any kind provided by the unit with the Void Shields (X)
Special Rule.
Sentry Protocols (Page 136)
Balance Change
Change the wording of the Sentry Protocols Special Rule entirely
to read as follows:
“A model with this Special Rule must target the closest enemy model as
per the following limitations and restrictions:
- Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 7 or more must target
the nearest enemy model with the Vehicle, Automata, or Dreadnought
Sub-types.
- Any model armed with a weapon of Strength 6 or below must target
the nearest enemy model without the Vehicle, Automata, or
Dreadnought Sub-types.
- Any model armed with a weapon with the Skyfire Special Rule must
target the nearest enemy model with the Flyer Sub-type.
If no such target is in range, then the Controlling Player may select a
target as normal.”
Medusa Mortar (Page 141)
Balance Change
Replace the Medusa Mortar’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Grenade Launcher (Secondary) (Page 142)
Balance Change
Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Vratine Grenade Launcher (Page 142)
Balance Change
Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Grenade Launcher (Page 146)
Balance Change
Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Adrasite Spear (Page 147)
Balance Change
Replace the Shooting profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Adrastus Bolt Caliver (Page 146)
Balance Change
Replace the Adrastus Bolt Caliver’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Adrathic Devastator (Page 145)
Balance Change
Replace the Adrathic Devastator’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Adrathic Destructor (Page 145)
Balance Change
Replace the Adrathic Destructor’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Volkite Macro-Saker (Page 145)
Balance Change
Replace the Volkite Macro-Saker profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Arachnus Storm Cannon (Page 143)
Balance Change
Replace the Arachnus Storm Cannon’s profile with the one found
in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Inferno Cannon (Page 143)
Errata
Change the range of the Inferno Cannon to ‘Hellstorm’.
Infernus Firepike (Page 143)
Balance Change
Replace the Infernus Firepike’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
107
Telemon Cestus (Page 150)
Balance Change
Replace the Telemon Cestus’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Tarsus Buckler (Page 150)
Balance Change
See the Tarsus Buckler’s melee profile in the Panoptica Weapons
Profiles section.
Pyrithite Spear (Page 147)
Balance Change
Replace the Shooting profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Gravis Power Fist (Page 150)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Charonite Claws (Page 150)
Balance Change
Replace the weapon’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Command Vox (Page 152)
Balance Change
Add the following effect to the wargear’s description:
“While at least one model with a Command Vox is present on the
battlefield and not Embarked in a Vehicle or Building, the Controlling
Player may re-roll any Scatter rolls made (whether as part of a weapon
attack or the deployment of a model or unit), as long as the model with
the Command Vox has line of sight to the unit targeted by the attack or
the point chosen as the target of the deployment.”
Custodes Gyrfalcon Jetbike (Page 153)
Balance Change
Add the Skilled Rider Special Rule to the rules and abilities
provided by this item of wargear.
Erinyes Jetbike (Page 154)
Balance Change
Add the following effect to the wargear’s description:
“In addition, any model equipped with an Erinyes Jetbike sets its
Movement Characteristic to 18”, and gains the Skilled Rider and
Battle-Hardened (1) Special Rules.”
Panoply of the Assassin (Page 156)
Balance Change
Add the following to the wargear’s effects:
“A model equipped with the Panoply of the Assassin also gains Frag
Grenades, and the Hit & Run and Shrouded (5+) Special Rules.”
Praesidium Shield (Page 156)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of the Praesidium Shield Wargear to read as
follows:
“A Praesidium shield confers a 5+ Invulnerable Save – this does not
stack with existing Invulnerable Saves and if a model has more than
one such save, the Controlling Player must select one to use against any
Wounds inflicted on that model. A model with a Praesidium Shield
adds +1 to its Invulnerable Save (to a maximum of 3+) or an
Invulnerable Save of 6+ if they do not already possess one. In
addition, a model with a Praesidium Shield cannot claim bonus attacks
for having more than one melee weapon, or make attacks during the
Assault phase using a weapon with the Two-Handed Special Rule.”
Krak Grenades (Page 155)
Balance Change
Replace the wargear’s profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
108
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
LEGACIES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS: SOLAR AUXILIA
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Solar Auxilia Carnodon Strike Squadron (Page 4)
Balance Change
Replace the Turret Mounted Twin-Linked Multi-Laser in this
unit's profile with a Turret Mounted Gravis Multi-Laser.
Replace the option to select a Turret Mounted Twin-Linked
Autocannon in this unit's options with a Turret Mounted
Gravis Autocannon.
Replace the option to select a Turret Mounted Twin-Linked
Lascannon in this unit's options with a Turret Mounted
Gravis Lascannon.
Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted
Multi-lasers to Free.
Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted
Heavy Bolters to Free.
Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted
Autocannons to +5 points.
Change the upgrade cost for Two Sponson-Mounted
Lascannons to +15 points.
Solar Auxilia Thunderer Siege Tank Squadron (Page 6)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 150 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +135 points.
Lidless Stare (Psychic Weapon) (Page 3)
Balance Change
Replace the Lidless Stare (Psychic Weapon)’s profile with the one
found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Davinite Lodge Priest (Page 2)
Balance Change
Add the Psychic Discipline: Anaethemata to those known by this
unit.
Solar Auxilia Destroyer Tank Hunter Squadron (Page 7)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 150 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +135 points.
Replace the Proteus Laser Destroyer’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Solar Auxilia Trojan Support Vehicle (Page 8)
Balance Change
Change the value of the Field Repair (X) Special Rule on this unit’s
profile to 3+.
Solar Auxilia Minotaur Battery (Page 9)
Balance Change
Replace the Hull Centreline (Rear) Mounted Twin-Linked
Earthshaker cannon with a Centreline (Rear) Mounted Earthshaker
Battery - See the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Errata
Replace the option to select a Hull (Front) Mounted Hunter-Killer
Missile in this unit's options with a Hull (Rear) Mounted HunterKiller Missile.
Solar Auxilia Macharius Heavy Tank Squadron (Page 10)
Balance Change
Move this unit from a Lord of War selection to a Heavy Support
selection.
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 350 Points, and the cost
to add an additional model to 335 Points.
Change the number of additional models that can be included in
the unit to 2.
Replace the Macharius Battlecannon, Macharius Vanquisher
Battlecannon, and Macharius Rotary Bolt Cannon’s profiles with
the one found in the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Solar Auxilia Stormblade (Page 11)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points.
Replace the Plasma Blastgun’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Bolter to this unit’s profile.
Solar Auxilia Banehammer (Page 13)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points.
Increase the Transport Capacity to 22 models.
Add the Tank Desant (10) Special Rule to this unit’s entry.
Replace the Tremor Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Solar Auxilia Baneblade (Page 12)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 450 Points.
Replace the Baneblade Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
109
Solar Auxilia Stormlord (Page 14)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 450 Points.
Increase the Transport Capacity to 32 models.
Add the Tank Desant (10) and Assault Vehicle Special Rules to this
unit’s entry.
Add the following to the unit’s profile:
“A Solar Auxilia Stormlord has one Access Point at the rear of the hull.”
Replace the Vulcan Mega-Bolter’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Solar Auxilia Stormsword (Page 16)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 475 Points.
Replace the Hellhammer Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Solar Auxilia Shadowsword (Page 15)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 525 Points.
Increase the Front Armour Characteristic of this unit to 14.
Solar Auxilia Praetor Armoured Assault Launcher (Page 17)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 450 Points.
Replace the Praetor Launcher on this unit’s profile with a
Centreline Mounted Praetor Launcher - see profile in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Solar Auxilia Crassus Armoured Assault Transport (Page 18)
Balance Change
Change the Transport Capacity Characteristic of the Crassus Assault
Transport to 48.
Add the Transport Bay Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Solar Auxilia Artillery Battery (Page 19)
Balance Change
Decrease the base points cost of the unit to 100 Points.
Add the Immobile and Bulky (5) Special Rules to this unit’s entry -
these are applied only to the Artillery Platforms.
Change the Armour Save on the Auxilia Gunner Statline to 4+.
Change the profile of the Artillery Platform to the below:
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
Artillery Platform - - 4 7 7 4 - - 5 3+
110
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
LEGACIES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS:THE IMPERIALISMILITIA
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Mechanised Unit Sub-type (Page 5, 29)
Balance Change
Change the fifth effect of the Mechanised Sub-type to read as
follows:
“A model with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type is affected by the
Haywire, Detonation and Battlesmith (X) Special Rules as if it
had the Dreadnought Unit Type. Any attacks made against a unit
with the Mechanised Unit Sub-type are resolved as if the model had
the Dreadnought Unit Type. Note that this affects any Wargear,
Weapons, Special Rules, Psychic Powers, or any other abilities.”
Clanfolk Levy (Page 9)
Balance Change
Change the effects of the Clanfolk Levy Provenance to read as
follows:
“A Detachment with this Provenance may choose to fill Compulsory
Troops choices only with Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads with all
models in Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads selected as Compulsory
Troops choices. Units selected in this manner gain the Line Sub-type.
In addition, all models in Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads gain a
bonus of +1 to their Leadership Characteristic (this does not allow
Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads to be selected as non Compulsory
Troops choices). In addition, a Detachment with this Provenance may
include four additional Fast Attack choices – but these additional
choices may only be used to select Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squads.”
Legacy of the Great Crusade (Page 9)
Balance Change
Change the effects of the Legacy of the Great Crusade Provenance
to read as follows:
“All Imperialis Militia Grenadier Squad, Imperialis Militia Command
Cadres, and units that contain a Discipline Master or Mounted
Discipline Master in a Detachment with this Provenance increase their
Ballistic Skill by +1 (to a maximum of 4). A Force Commander in a
Detachment with this Provenance increases its Initiative to 5.”
Cyber-Augmetics (Page 10)
Balance Change
Change the effects of the Cyber-Augmetics Provenance to read as
follows:
“All eligible units and models gain the Feel No Pain (6+) and Slow and
Purposeful Special Rule, and any eligible unit may be given the Slow
and Purposeful Special Rule at no additional points cost. In addition,
any unit which includes a Militia Medicae improves the Feel No Pain
(6+) Special Rule provided by their Auto-Medicus to a (5+).
This Provenance may not be chosen in conjunction with the Genecrafted Provenance and any Detachment with this Provenance is
treated as Sworn Brothers by any Detachment with the Mechanicum
Faction in the same army.”
Kinfolk Helots (Page 11)
Balance Change
Change the effects of the Kinfolk Helots Provenance to read as
follows:
“All eligible units and models receive an increase of +1 to their
Toughness Characteristic but also lower their Initiative and Movement
Characteristics by -1 (to a minimum of 1, models with a Movement of 0
or - are not affected and remain Movement 0 or -) change their
Toughness Characteristic to be one higher than its starting value (a
Toughness characteristic of 3 being changed to 4 on their statline, for
example), but also change their Initiative and Movement
Characteristics to be one lower than its starting value (in the same
way as above). All eligible models in a Detachment with this
Provenance and the Character Unit Sub-type gain the Battlesmith (6+)
Special Rule, or if they also have the Independent Character Special
Rule gain the Battlesmith (5+) Special Rule instead. This Provenance
may not be chosen in conjunction with the Ogryn Conscripts
Provenance.”
The Third-Line Unit Sub-type (Page 5)
Errata
Change the first line of the Sub-type to read as follows:
“The following rules apply to all models with the Third-Line Sub-type:”
Merchant Princeling (Page 6)
Errata
Add the following to the end of the Warlord Trait’s effects:
“If the Warlord has a Retinue unit of any kind, this unit is instead
automatically designated as the Warlord’s Lifeguard unit. A Warlord
with this Trait also gains the Heavy Unit Sub-Type.”
Imperial Militia Force Commander (Page 8)
Balance Change
Change the italicised text after the fifth Options bullet point to
read as follows:
“*A Mounted Force Commander uses the Mounted Force Commander
profile instead of the Force Commander profile, gains the Militia
Cavalry Mount Wargear (see page 37), gains the Relentless, Scout, and
Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rules and replaces the Infantry Unit Type
with the Cavalry Unit Type, as well as gaining the Skirmish and Light
Sub-types, but otherwise keeping all other Sub-types it previously had.”
Weapon & Equipment Upgrades (Various Pages)
Balance Change
If a model equipped with a Lasgun is eligible to purchase a bayonet
and exchanges their Lasgun for a Lasrifle or Autogun, they may still
purchase a bayonet as normal.
111
Abhuman Muster (Page 11)
Balance Change
Change the effects of the Abhuman Muster Provenance to read as
follows:
“All eligible units and models receive an increase of +1 to their Strength
Characteristic but also lower their Ballistic Skill by -1 (to a minimum of
1) change their Strength and Movement Characteristic to be one
higher than its starting value (a Strength characteristic of 3 being
changed to 4 on their statline, for example), but also change their
Ballistic Skill Characteristic to be one lower than its starting value
(in the same way as above) and, if they do not already possess any
variant of the Bulky (X) Special Rule, gain the Bulky (2) Special Rule. All
eligible models in a Detachment with this Provenance and the
Character Unit Sub-type gain the Hammer of Wrath (1) special rule, or
if they also have the Independent Character special rule or the
Monstrous Unit Sub-type gain the Hammer of Wrath (2) special rule
instead. gain the Hammer of Wrath (1) Special Rule. If a model also
has the Character Unit Sub-type or the Monstrous Unit Sub-type,
they gain the Hammer of Wrath (2) Special Rule instead, or +1 to an
existing Hammer of Wrath (X) Special Rule if they already have the
Hammer of Wrath (2) Special Rule. This Provenance may not be
chosen in conjunction with the Ogryn Conscripts Provenance.”
Imperialis Militia Command Cadre (Page 16)
Balance Change
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +5 points.
Change the ninth bullet point in the options list to read as follows:
“For every five models in the unit, one Militia Bodyguard in the squad
may exchange their Lasgun for one of the following:”
Change the cost of exchanging a Lasgun for a Plasma Gun to +10
points.
Imperialis Militia Grenadier Squad (Page 19)
Balance Change
Change the eighth bullet point in the options list to read as follows:
“For every ten models in the unit, up to two Grenadiers in the squad
may exchange their Lasgun for one of the following:”
Expendable (Page 18)
FAQ
A Warlord which joins a unit containing any models with the
Expendable Special Rule still gives Victory Points for Slay the
Warlord, First Strike, or any other Primary or Secondary Mission
Objectives as normal when slain.
Imperialis Militia Fire Support Squad (Page 20)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 35 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +10 points.
Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Add the Crew-Served Weapon Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Change the option to purchase a Missile Launcher with Frag & Krak
Missiles to read as follows:
“Missile Launcher (with Frag, Krak, and Flak Missiles)”
Emplaced (Page 20, 24)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Special Rule’s effects:
“If taken as part of a Mortalis Assault Force Organisation Chart, a unit
that includes any models with this Special Rule may only make the
Suppress Reaction.”
Imperialis Militia Reconnaissance Squad (Page 21)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 35 points.
Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Change the third bullet point in the options list to read as follows:
“Any model in the unit may exchange their Shotguns, Lascarbines, or
Stubcarbines for one of the following:”
Imperialis Militia Ogryn Brute Squad (Page 23)
Balance Change
Change the option to purchase a Boarding Shield to read as
follows:
“Boarding Shield (and the Heavy Sub-type)”
Imperialis Militia Field Gun Battery (Page 24)
Balance Change
Change the option to exchange a Thunderblast Cannon for a
Heavy Lascannon to +10 points.
Change the option to exchange a Thunderblast Cannon for a
Kalliope Mortar to +10 points.
Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Imperialis Militia Arvus Transport (Page 25)
Balance Change
Add a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy Stubber and Searchlights to this
unit’s Wargear.
Among the Ranks (Page 13)
Balance Change
Change the third sentence of this Special Rule to read as follows:
“Discipline Masters may only be assigned to units composed entirely of
models with the Infantry Unit Type, and either the Militia or Artillery
Unit Sub-types, unless upgraded to a Mounted Discipline Master, in
which case that model must be assigned to a Unit with the Cavalry
Unit Type and the Militia Unit Sub-type.”
Imperialis Militia Discipline Master Cadre (Page 13)
Balance Change
Change the italicised text after the seventh Options bullet point to
read as follows:
“*A Mounted Discipline Master uses the Mounted Discipline Master
profile instead of the Discipline Master profile, gains the Militia Cavalry
Mount Wargear (see page 37), gains the Relentless, Scout, and Hammer
of Wrath (1) Special Rules and replaces the Infantry Unit Type with the
Cavalry Unit Type, as well as gaining the Skirmish and Light Subtypes, but otherwise keeping all other Sub-types it previously had. A
Discipline Master upgraded to a Mounted Discipline Master must be
assigned to either an Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squad, Imperialis
Militia Wolf Rapid Response Section, or Imperialis Militia Mounted
Command Cadre – this ignores the usual restrictions on assigning
models via the Among the Flock Special Rule to units based on Unit
Type.”
Strength in Numbers (Pages 17 & 18)
Balance Change
Change the last paragraph to read as follows:
“When assigning additional models to units using Among the Ranks
and Militia Medicae Support Special Rules any Special Rules, each unit
selected using the Strength in Numbers Special Rule is considered
separate and may have models assigned to it as per the normal rules as
the Controlling Player chooses.”
112
Demolisher Cannon (Page 38)
Balance Change
Replace the Demolisher Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Militia Standard (Page 37)
Balance Change
Add the following to the end of the Wargear’s effects:
“A unit that includes at least one model with a Militia Standard gains
the Line Sub-type for as long as that model is part of the unit.”
Battle Cannon (Page 38)
Balance Change
Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Baneblade Cannon (Page 38)
Balance Change
Replace the Baneblade Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Thunderblast Cannon (Page 38)
Balance Change
Replace the Thunderblast Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Imperialis Militia Gorgon Heavy Transporter (Page 35)
Balance Change
Add the Assault Vehicle Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Imperialis Militia Heavy Ordnance Battery (Page 34)
Balance Change
Change the Unit Type of the Gun Carriage on this unit’s profile to
Infantry (Static Artillery*, Heavy).
Add the Immobile and Bulky (5) Special Rules to this unit’s entry -
these are applied only to the Gun Carriage.
Change the profile of the Gun Carriage to the below:
*See Page 19, Legacies of the Age of Darkness: Solar Auxilia.
Imperialis Militia Baneblade Super-Heavy Battle Tank
(Page 36)
Balance Change
Change the Hull Points Characteristic of this unit to 12.
Imperialis Militia Leman Russ (Page 33)
Balance Change
Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis
Autocannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted
Exterminator Autocannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles
Section.
Replace the option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis
Lascannon for an option to purchase a Turret Mounted Gravis
Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons Profiles Section.
Change the option to exchange a Hull (Front) Mounted Heavy
Bolter for a Hull (Front) Mounted Lascannon to +10 points.
Imperialis Militia Malcador Heavy Tank Squadron
(Page 32)
Balance Change
Add the Independent Fire Control Special Rule to this unit’s
profile.
Replace the Battle Cannon’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Replace the option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted Gravis
Lascannon for an option to purchase a Hull (Front) Mounted
Twin-Linked Gravis Heavy Lascannon - See Panoptica Weapons
Profiles Section.
Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Left) Mounted Lascannon
and One Hull (Right) Mounted Lascannon to +15 points.
Change the upgrade cost for One Hull (Front) Mounted
Demolisher Cannon to +35 points.
M WS BS S T W I A Ld Sv
Gun Carriage - - 3 7 7 4 - - 5 3+
Imperialis Militia Sentinel Squadron (Page 29)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 40 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +40 points.
Change the option to purchase a Missile Launcher with Frag &
Krak Missiles to read as follows:
“Missile Launcher (with Frag, Krak, and Flak Missiles)”
Imperialis Militia Thunderbolt Fighter (Page 30)
Balance Change
Add the Divisio Aeronautica Air Superiority Special Rule to this
unit’s profile.
War Beasts (Page 28)
Errata
Change the Rage (1) Special Rule to Rage (2).
Imperialis Militia Beastmasters (Page 28)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 30 points.
Add the Fleet (1) Special Rule (Militia Handlers only) to this unit’s
profile.
Add the Light Sub-type (Militia Handlers only) to this unit’s profile.
Imperialis Militia Cavalry Squad (Page 27)
Balance Change
Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have a Wounds
Characteristic of 2.
Add the Skirmish Sub-type to this unit’s profile.
Change the fifth bullet point in the options list to read as follows:
“For every five models in the unit, one Militia Outrider in the unit may
take one of the following:”
Change the cost of selecting a Militia Lance to +2 points.
Errata
Change the Unit Type of the Militia Outrider Sergeant to:
Cavalry (Light, Militia, Skirmish, Character)
113
Volkite Macro-Saker (Page 40)
Balance Change
Replace the Volkite Macro-Saker’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Grenade Launcher (Page 40)
Balance Change
Replace the Krak profile with the one found in the Panoptica
Weapons Profiles section.
Ripper Gun (Page 41)
Balance Change
See the Ripper Gun’s melee profile in the Panoptica Weapons
Profiles section.
Melta Lance (Page 41)
Balance Change
See the Melta Lance’s melee profile in the Panoptica Weapons
Profiles section.
Medusa Mortar (Page 38)
Balance Change
Replace the Medusa Mortar’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Earthshaker Cannon (Page 38)
Balance Change
Replace the Earthshaker Cannon’s profile with the one found in
the Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Ungainly (Page 41)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of this Special Rule to read as follows:
“A model may only attack with this weapon on a turn in which it makes
a successful Charge Charge (even if that Charge is Disordered), but
does not gain a bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules
that would normally grant additional Attacks.”
114
Arms of the Omnissiah (Page 6)
Balance Change
Add the following to this Provenance of War’s wording:
“Any Detachment with this Provenance is treated as Sworn Brothers by
any Detachment with the Mechanicum Faction in the same army.”
Change the wording of the “Blessed Arms” option to read as
follows:
“Option – Blessed Arms: Eligible models in Imperialis Militia Grenadier
Squads and Imperialis Militia Command Cadres may upgrade Lasguns
to Las-locks at no additional points cost, and may upgrade Sniper
Rifles to Arc Rifles at a cost of +45 +25 points per unit, regardless of the
number of models or types of weapons upgraded in a given unit.”
Augmented Levy (Page 6)
Balance Change
Add the following to this Provenance of War’s wording:
“Any Detachment with this Provenance is treated as Sworn Brothers by
any Detachment with the Mechanicum Faction in the same army.”
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:
THE LIBERATION OFCONSTANIX II
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
115
116
FAQ, ERRATA, &BALANCECHANGES FOR
EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Editor’s Note: If you’re looking for patches for units not mentioned here that were reprinted in another publication, such as the Exemplary Battles: Volume
One book, please go to that section of the Liber Panoptica.
Imperial Fists Huscarl Squad (Page 2)
Balance Change
Add the following Dedicated Transport text to this unit, to read as
follows:
“An Imperial Fists Huscarl Squad numbering no more than five models
may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier or Legion Dreadclaw
Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport. An Imperial Fists Huscarl Squad of
any size may select a Legion Spartan Land Raider as a Dedicated
Transport. As a Dedicated Transport, this does not use up an additional
Force Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part
of the army.”
Dark Angels Inner Circle Knights Cenobium -
Order of the Broken Claws (Page 7)
Balance Change
Set the Unit Type for the Order Cenobite profile to Infantry
(Heavy), and the Unit Type for the Order Preceptor profile to
Infantry (Character, Heavy).
Add the Chosen Warriors Special Rule to the unit.
Change the upgrade cost for a Thunder Hammer to +5 points per
model.
For the purposes of the Deathwing Hexagrammaton Unit Subtype, an Advex-Mors Greatsword gains the +1 To Hit bonus
provided by the Sub-type.
Death Guard Mortus Poisoner Squad (Page 8)
Balance Change
Change the Wounds Characteristic on this unit’s profiles to 2.
Add the Battle-Hardened (1) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Change the cost to purchase a Heavy Alchem Flamer to +5 points.
Change the cost to purchase a Power Scythe to +10 points.
Emperor’s Children Sun Killer Squad (Page 13)
Balance Change
Change the option to upgrade to a Multi-Melta to include a
Suspensor Web.
White Scars Dark Sons of Death (Page 11)
Balance Change
Set the Attacks Characteristic for the Dark Son profile to 2, and the
Attacks Characteristic for the Death’s Champion profile to 3.
Raven Guard Deliverers Squad (Page 15)
Balance Change
Change the first paragraph of the Corax’s Shame Special Rule to
read as follows:
“If selected as part of an army with the Loyalist Allegiance, models with
this Special Rule gain the Battle-hardened (1) and Hatred (Horus
Lupercal) Special Rules. If selected as part of an army with the Traitor
Allegiance, models with this Special Rule gain the Battle-hardened (1)
and Hatred (Corvus Corax) Special Rules.”
117
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS:VOLUME ONE
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Legiones Hereticus (X) (Page 106)
FAQ
In the same manner as a Detachment composed of models with the
appropriate version of the Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule is
classed as having that Faction for the purposes of the Allies Matrix,
Allied or Optional Detachments, and so on, a Detachment
composed of models with the appropriate version of the Legiones
Hereticus (X) Special Rule should be treated as though it had the
Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule for all such interactions.
The Daemon Primarch Unit Type (Page 102)
Errata
Add the following bullet points to the list of effects provided by this
Unit Type:
“A model with this Unit Type may join units with the Infantry Unit
Type as if it had the Primarch Unit Type, or units with the Daemon
Unit Type as if it had the Daemon Unit Type.
Balance Change
Replace the 4th bullet point to read as follows:
“Any Hits inflicted by a Daemon Primarch, as part of either Shooting
Attacks or in close combat, are allocated by the Daemon Primarch’s
controlling player and not the Controlling Player of the target unit.
These Hits should form a separate Wound Pool. Daemon Primarchs
have the Precision Strikes (2+) and Precision Shots (2+) Special Rules,
and may choose to use these rules when attacking even when
ordinarily they would be prevented from doing so, including when
making Snap Shots.”
Add the following bullet points to the list of effects provided by this
Unit Type:
Any unit entirely composed of models with the Daemon Primarch Unit
Type may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any
penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the
Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan,
Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.”
Salamanders Sanctifier Squad (Page 92)
Balance Change
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Salamanders Sanctifier Squad may take a Legion Rhino Transport,
Legion Termite Assault Drill, or Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier. If
taken this way, a transport does not use up an additional Force
Organisation slot, but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the
army.”
Change the eighth options bullet point to read as follows:
“For every five models in the unit, one Sanctifier Any model in the unit
may exchange their Bolter for the following option:
- Obsidite Rotor Cannon +10 points”
Fulgrim Transfigured (Page 104)
Balance Change
Change the Weapon Skill Characteristic on this unit’s profile to 9.
Add the following to this model’s profile:
Fulgrim Transfigured is counted as having a Legion Warhawk Jump
Pack for rules and interactions that affect or require that wargear.”
The Stage is Set (Page 109)
Balance Change
For the purposes of Movement, Shooting Attacks, and Charges, a
model deployed via this Special Rule should be treated as though
they were deployed via a Deep Strike Assault.
World Eaters Red Hand Destroyer Assault Squad (Page 44)
Balance Change
Change the cost of the below options to read as follows:
- Meteor Hammer +10 points per model
- Excoriator Chainaxe +10 points per model
- Twin Falax Blades +5 points per model
- Barb-Hook Lash +5 points per model
Iron Warriors Dominator Cohort (Page 26)
Balance Change
Change the base unit cost of the unit to 250 points.
Change the cost per additional model to 45 points per model.
Replace the Dedicated Transport text on this unit to read as
follows:
“A Dominator Cohort may take a Legion Land Raider Proteus Carrier
or Legion Dreadclaw Drop Pod as a Dedicated Transport as long as it
numbers no more than 5 models or a unit of any size may take a
Legion Land Raider Spartan as a Dedicated Transport. If taken this
way, a transport does not use up an additional Force Organisation slot,
but its points cost must still be paid for as part of the army.”
Ultramarines Nemesis Destroyer Squad (Page 66)
Balance Change
Replace the Mortifier Bolter’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Night Lords Atramentar Squad (Page 12)
Balance Change
Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill
Characteristic of 5.
Change the Atramentar’s Leadership Characteristic to be 8, and
change the Atramentar Trucidor’s Leadership Characteristic to be 9.
Add the Stubborn Special Rule to this unit’s Profile.
118
Grim Purpose (Page 8)
Balance Change
Replace the wording of this Special Rule to read as follows:
“A unit that includes any models with this Special Rule may not be
joined by any model that does not also have this Special Rule (this
includes Legion Techmarines and Legion Apothecaries, which may not
be assigned to a unit with this Special Rule unless they also have this
Special Rule), unless that model has the Independent Character
Special Rule and one of the following Psychic Disciplines: Harbinger
of Chaos, Diabolism, or Anathemata.
A Word Bearers Procurator Squad may be selected as a Retinue
Squad in a Detachment that includes at least one model with both
the Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers)
Special Rules and one of the following Psychic Disciplines: Harbinger
of Chaos, Diabolism, or Anathemata, instead of as an Elites choice. A
unit selected as a ‘Retinue Squad’ must have one model with both the
Independent Character and Legiones Astartes (Word Bearers) Special
Rules and one of the following Psychic Disciplines: Harbinger of
Chaos, Diabolism, or Anathemata from the same Detachment
selected by the controlling player as the Word Bearers Procurator
Squad’s Leader for the purposes of this Special Rule. A Word Bearers
Procurator Squad selected as a Retinue Squad does not use up a
Force Organisation slot and is considered part of the same unit as the
model selected as its Leader. A Word Bearers Procurator Squad
selected as a Retinue Squad must be deployed with the model selected
as its Leader deployed as part of the unit and the Leader may not
voluntarily leave the Retinue Squad during play.”
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:
THE SCOURING OF GILDEN’S STAR
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Word Bearers Procurators (Page 8)
Balance Change
Change the option to exchange a Chainsword for a Heavy
Chainsword to +2 points.
119
Jorlund Hunter Pack (Page 6)
Balance Change
Add the Skirmish Sub-type and Hit & Run Special Rule to this
unit’s profile.
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:
THEBATTLE OFTRISOLIAN:VENGEFUL SPIRIT
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
120
Gargantuan (Page 2)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the Unit Type:
“Any unit entirely composed of models with the Gargantuan Unit Type
may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any
penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the
Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan,
Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.”
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
LEGACIES OF THE AGE OFDARKNESS:DAEMONS OF THERUINSTORM
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
Ruinstorm Daemon Sovereign (Page 6)
Balance Change
Add the Lords of the Ruinstorm Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Change the cost of exchanging Sovereign Armaments for a
Sovereign Greatblade to +40 points.
Change the cost of selecting Immaterial Wings to +50 points.
Ætheric Dominion (Formless Distortion) (Page 4)
Balance Change
Change the D3 result of 2 to read as follows:
“2 - Lashing Pseudopods: Reach (1), Rending (6+)”
Ruinstorm Arch-Daemon (Page 17)
Balance Change
Change the cost of selecting Immaterial Wings to +50 points.
Add the Warp Resplendent Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Cor’Bax Utterblight Unbound (Page 20)
Balance Change
Add the Bulky (6) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Behemoth Blade (Page 24)
Balance Change
Replace the Behemoth Blade’s profile with the one found in the
Panoptica Weapons Profiles section.
Ruinstorm Daemon Hierarch (Page 7)
Balance Change
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill
Characteristic of 6.
Add the Independent Character Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Ruinstorm Daemon Harbinger (Page 8)
Balance Change
Change both profiles on this unit’s entry to have an Armour Save of 3+.
Ruinstorm Daemon Beasts (Page 10)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 70 points.
Change the Points Per Model Cost of this unit to +20 points.
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Attacks
Characteristic of 4.
Add the Furious Charge (1) and Scout Special Rules to this unit’s
profile.
Ruinstorm Lesser Daemons (Page 11)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 100 points.
Ruinstorm Daemon Swarms (Page 12)
Balance Change
Remove the Swarm Special Rule from this unit’s profile, and add
the Daemonic Hordes Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Ruinstorm Daemon Cavalry (Page 13)
Balance Change
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Leadership
Characteristic of 7.
Add the Hit & Run, Hammer of Wrath (1), and Bulky (2) Special
Rules to this unit’s profile.
Ruinstorm Daemon Harriers (Page 14)
Balance Change
Change the Points Cost of this unit to 100 points.
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Attacks
Characteristic of 2.
Add the Deep Strike Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
Greater Ruinstorm Daemon Beast (Page 15)
Balance Change
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Leadership
Characteristic of 8.
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Strength and
Toughness Characteristic of 6.
Add the Bulky (5) and Feeding Frenzy Special Rules to this unit’s
profile.
Ruinstorm Daemon Behemoth (Page 16)
Balance Change
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have a Weapon Skill
Characteristic of 5.
Change the profile on this unit’s entry to have an Leadership
Characteristic of 8.
121
ADDITIONAL WARGEAR OPTIONS FOR
EXISTINGDAEMONS OF THERUINSTORM UNITS
In addition to the normal options presented in the rules for various units, the additional wargear presented below may be selected for units at the
costs shown. These are intended to be used alongside various publications, including all of Games Workshop’s official publications and releases.
Note that these upgrades will be moved into a future release from the Panoptica Team.
RUINSTORM DAEMON HIERARCH
Options:
? A Hierarch may exchange their Infernal Armaments for the following option:
- Sovereign Armaments........................................................................................................................................................................................................ +30 points
RUINSTORM DAEMON HARBINGER
Options:
? A Harbinger may exchange their Harbinger Blade for the following option:
- Infernal Armaments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Free
RUINSTORM DAEMON BEHEMOTH
Options:
? A Ruinstorm Behemoth may select the following option:
- The Unmaking ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... +25 points
122
Gargantuan (Page 23)
Balance Change
Add the following bullet point to the Unit Type:
“Any unit entirely composed of models with the Gargantuan Unit Type
may choose to ignore the Heroic Stand Special Rule, ignoring any
penalties normally applied for declining a Challenge, unless the
Challenge was issued by a model with the Knight, Gargantuan, Titan,
Primarch, or Daemon Primarch Unit Types.”
Bound Cor’Bax Utterblight (Page 21)
Balance Change
Add the Bulky (6) Special Rule to this unit’s profile.
FAQ, ERRATA, & BALANCE CHANGES FOR
EXEMPLARYBATTLES OF THEAGE OFDARKNESS:
THEBURNING OF OHMN-MAT
With the release of the second version of the Horus Heresy, there are likely to be rules and scenarios that do not function as clearly or as cleanly as
expected, and some of these may present difficulties during games or otherwise prevent mechanics from working as they should in the spirit of the
game. The following compilation of clarifications and corrections are designed to simplify the process of understanding this new edition and the
questions which may arise as a result of them, as well as to correct issues with balance identified via testing.
123
ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Additional Special Rules
126
ADDITIONAL SPECIALRULES
The FAQ, Errata, and Balance Changes made in this document add a number of additional Special Rules to certain units - these can be found below.
These function in addition to the Special Rules found in the existing official Games Workshop publications, and operate under the broader Rules
and Conventions laid out in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook.
Afterburner
Colossal secondary combustors attached to the main engines of a flyer
allowed this vehicle a surprising burst of speed.
Once per game at the start of the Movement Phase, a model with
this Special Rule may elect to fire its Afterburner. If it does so, the
model may make an additional move after its normal move, up to
its normal movement Characteristic. Note that for this additional
move, the Movement value cannot be modified in any way.
Caestus Prow
The armoured fore of this craft was a masterwork of layered armour,
shield generators, and reinforced bulkheads.
A model with this Special Rule may declare a Ramming attack in
the same manner as a Tank, regardless of its actual unit type. This
attack must be declared at the start of the Movement Phase, after
you have decided whether or not the will fire its Afterburner (if it
has the Afterburner Special Rule). When conducting a Ramming
attack, the hit is automatically resolved at Strength 10, AP 3, and
adds +1 to any rolls on the Vehicle Damage table it inflicts. If the
model fired its Afterburner this turn, add +2 instead.
In addition, the model has an Invulnerable Save of 5+ against any
attacks against its Front Armour, including any damage it suffers
as a result of it Ramming or being Rammed itself.
A model with this Special Rule is immune to the effects of the
Armourbane (Melta) Special Rule – meaning that no extra D6 for
armour penetration can be rolled against the model as a result of
this Special Rule.
Auto-Servo Tracking
Independent firing control subsystems allowed this weapon to track
and fire without requiring their operator to direct them.
A weapon with this Special Rule can fire at a different target to the
other weapons the model is armed with.
Augmetics (X)
Some warriors in the Age of Darkness had extensive amounts of
augmetics within, enough even to survive the most grievous of wounds.
When a model with this Special Rule suffers an unsaved Wound, it
can make a special Augmetics roll to avoid being wounded (this is
not a Saving Throw and so can be used against attacks that state
that ‘no Saves of any kind are allowed’).
Roll a D6 each time an unsaved Wound is suffered. On a result
that is equal to or greater than the value in brackets, the unsaved
Wound is discounted – treat it as having been Saved. On any other
result, the Wound is taken as normal. For example, a unit with the
Augmetics (6+) Special Rule would need to score a 6 in order to
discount a Wound inflicted upon it.
If on any unit this rule is presented simply as Augmetics, without a
value in brackets, then count it as Augmetics (6+).
This is a Damage Mitigation roll – any model may make only a
single Damage Mitigation roll of any type for any given Wound
(see page 174).
Artillery Spotters
These spotters worked in tandem with their charges, calling targets for
those under their command to assail.
A unit with this Special Rule may grant the benefits of a Cognis
Signum it has purchased to any unit with at least one model
within 6” of a model from this unit, instead of using the benefit
itself - though the unit affected must be from the same Tercio as it
to grant it the benefits of the Cognis Signum in this way.
Brittle
The sharpened edge on this weapon was impressively good at slicing
through almost any substance - unless the blade bit at a bad angle.
If a model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule hits with all
attacks made with this weapon in a single phase, the blade’s edge is
blunted – at the end of the phase, the weapon’s AP value drops to
AP 4 and it loses any variant of the Rending (X) Special Rule it
possesses for the rest of the battle.
Broken Soul
For those who had already given themselves to the darkness, it was only
a small step to invite the evil within themselves…
A model with this Special Rule may be given the Corrupted
Sub-type at no additional cost in points - this must be decided at
the start of the battle before any models are deployed and may not
be changed during the battle.
Born of Steel
This combatant had become more metal than flesh, and could walk
among automata as one of their own.
A model with this Special Rule may be given the Patris Cybernetica
Special Rule at no additional cost in points - this must be decided
at the start of the battle before any models are deployed and may
not be changed during the battle.
Armoured Superstructure
Approaching in bulk that of a Super-Heavy vehicle, some armoured
behemoths could withstand blows that would utterly destroy a lesser
target.
Whenever a roll is made on the Vehicle Damage Table against a
model with this Special Rule, subtract -1 from the result rolled.
Consul (X)
Despite their lofty station that had otherwise outstripped the rank of
Consul, Astartes Centurions would often retain all the privileges of
their former rank.
A model with this Special Rule is counted as having the named
Legiones Consularis Upgrade as indicated in brackets in the
Special Rule for all intents and purposes, including Rites of War,
Special Rules, and wargear limitations which either require there
to be one to be present in a detachment, or prevent it. Note that
this does not confer any of the benefits normally gained from that
upgrade to the model themselves from any such sources.
127
Countermeasures
Whether achieved via immense speed, thermic flares, or other more
esoteric means, this craft could confound incoming fire.
A model with this Special Rule has a 5+ Invulnerable Save against
any Shooting Attacks which have the Skyfire Special Rule made
against it. A model with this Special Rule which does not make a
Zoom move in the Controlling Player’s Movement Phase cannot
claim the benefit of this Special Rule during the rest of the
Controlling Player’s turn, as well as the Opposing Player’s turn.
Close-Quarters Boarding Protocol
The mortal factions of the Imperialis Militia were often found fighting
in the claustrophobic confines of a Zone Mortalis.
A unit with this Special Rule may be chosen as part of a
detachment using the Zone Mortalis Engagement Force
Organisation Chart despite having more than 15 models. However,
this unit cannot be expanded above its starting size.
Felling Blow
Trading raw speed for killing power, this weapon struck with a fury
unmatched by lesser weapons.
When a model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule
makes a Melee attack, it may choose to halve the number of
attacks it makes. If it does so, those attacks gain the Murderous
Strike (5+) Special Rule.
Feeding Frenzy
Flailing tendrils snatched up the dead and dying to be devoured by one
of the creature’s many fanged maws. The feast of flesh was added to its
mass – regenerating damage inflicted upon it.
At the end of an Initiative Step in which an enemy model is slain in
close combat as a result of attacks made by a model with this
Special Rule, the Controlling Player may roll a D6 for each model
slain. On a result of a 6 a model with this Special Rule in the
attacking unit immediately regains 1 Wound, up to its starting
Wounds Characteristic.
Emperor’s Chosen
A long and storied path awaited one marked by the Emperor himself -
and this Champion had a fate not yet met...
A model with this Special Rule that suffers an unsaved wound with
the Instant Death Special Rule is not immediately removed as a
casualty, but instead loses D3 wounds instead of one for each
unsaved wound with the Instant Death Special Rule inflicted on it.
Dimensional Edge (X)
The blade of this weapon was not truly at home in our reality - and the
exotic matter that constitutes its form would, when caught in the right
phase, pass straight through any matter it touched.
Weapons with this Special Rule can only ever cause a Wound on
the number indicated in brackets.
No Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls of any kind may be taken
against Wounds caused by this weapon.
Daemonic Hordes
The unending multitudes of these biting, gnawing, scratching creatures
were often underestimated; often only until they kept coming despite
losing untold dozens of their numbers.
If a model with the Daemonic Hordes Special Rule suffers an
unsaved Wound from a Blast (any size) or Template weapon, each
unsaved Wound is multiplied to two unsaved Wounds.
In addition, a model with this Special Rule cannot suffer Instant
Death as a result of any Attack which has a Strength value of
double its Toughness Characteristic - Though attacks which would
otherwise inflict Instant Death in this way may not benefit from
the Feel No Pain (X) or Corrupted Resilience Special Rule. Attacks
which have the Instant Death Special Rule in their profile are
unaffected by this Special Rule and function normally.
Gyrocoil Charge
Internal moving weights inside this weapon allowed it to make
incredibly heavy blows - at the cost of speed.
Attacks made with a weapon with this Special Rule incur a -2
Initiative Penalty.
Exposed Compartment
Whilst the open crew bays of some vehicles made them easier to
operate for many tasks, they also made easy prey for weapons designed
to take advantage of such weaknesses.
Any rolls on the Vehicle Damage Table that target a model with
this Special Rule add +1 to the result.
Hardwired Defences
These automated weapons would follow their directives to protect their
position until they were destroyed.
A Fortification with this Special Rule may not be claimed by a
player which did not originally select them as part of their army.
Crew-Served Weapon
The weight and bulk of some heavy weapons required multiple troops
to partially deconstruct and carry them when repositioning or
boarding most transports.
A model with this Special Rule may Embark on models with the
Transport Unit Sub-Type and Infantry Transport Special Rule,
contrary to the restriction on models with the Bulky (X) Special
Rule rule, but still must take into account their size due to the
Bulky (X) Special Rule.
Ejector Blowout
The unstable nature of some weapons means runaway reactions and
failures in safety mechanisms can be explosively fatal.
A weapon with this Special Rule counts all Gets Hot results as AP2.
Field Officer
The officers of the Solar Auxilia were never far from the frontlines, ready
and able to lead their troops into battle directly if necessary.
When this model with this Special Rule joins a unit with the CloseOrder Unit Sub-Type, it automatically gains the Close-Order Unit
Sub-Type for as long as it remains part of that unit.
128
Sensor Flare
Against some targets, the harsh coruscating light given off rendered
even the most advanced sensors utterly useless.
If a model is Hit by a weapon with this Special Rule, it must take
an immediate Blind Test.
Riposte (X)
Fluid in the air in a way the eye struggles to track, this weapon seems
to be in many places at once - and always right where it is needed to
block a blade...
Models making an attack against a model wielding a weapon with
this Special Rule must subtract X from their Weapon Skill.
Psychic Mastery (X)
A raw bulwark of ethereal power, this psyker pushed past the limits
that would spell doom for others - despite the great risks...
A model with this Special Rule may cast an amount of Psychic
Powers per phase, up to the number indicated in brackets, in spite
of the normal limitations on doing so. Note that a Psychic Power
counted as a Shooting Attack counts as a single power for the
purposes of this Special Rule, and that this Special Rule does not
allow a model to cast the same power multiple times per phase.
Predator’s Gaze
Those rare few who have survived being hunted by an assassin clade
operative long enough to speak of it reported something truly
unnatural and unsettling in the gaze of those singular killers.
When issuing a challenge, a model with this Special Rule selects
the enemy character that accepts the challenge from any models
which are eligible to respond.
Reinforced Shell
Built to survive even the most horrendous damage, this vehicle endured
where lesser chassis did not.
When a model with this Special Rule loses its last Hull Point, but
before resolving the Super-Heavy Explosion, roll a D6. On a Result
of a 4+, the model does not explode as normal, but instead its shell
is treated from this point onward as a ruined building rather than
a vehicle wreck, with its two doorways counted as being open
access points to the interior.
Paired Weapons
Some weapons required they were used together to achieve full
effectiveness.
A model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule gains an extra
Attack.
Inertia Suppression Clamps
Inertial suppression clamps locked transported troops into place,
protecting them from impact.
A model with this Special Rule can carry units composed entirely
of models with the Infantry Unit Type as though any instance of
the Bulky (X) Special Rule they possess had a value of 2 lower than
it actually is, to a minimum of 1, for the purposes of Transport
Capacity of this model only.
Makeshift Weapon
Whilst not all tools of the 31st millennium were intended to see combat,
in a pinch they too could serve as deadly weapons of war.
A model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule may only
make a single attack at Initiative Step 1 with it, and may not gain a
bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules that would
normally grant additional Attacks.
No Witnesses
As an ancient Terran adage went, ‘there can be no witnesses if there are
no survivors’…
A model with this Special Rule may never issue or accept
Challenges, and ignores any effects or Special Rules that would
force it to do so. If the Opposing Player issues a Challenge, a model
with this Special Rule may never be chosen as the model who
declined it.
Lords of the Ruinstorm
Among the thronging masses of the warp, the greatest amongst them
were rare indeed - and jealous in their command.
Only one model with this Special Rule may be included per 1,500
points in your army.
Rupture (X)
Some weapons lacked the raw power to penetrate the thickest armour,
but lighter targets would still find themselves torn apart under such
blows regardless.
When rolling To Wound for a model that has the Rupture (X)
Special Rule, or is attacking with a weapon that has the Rupture (X)
Special Rule, for each To Wound roll equal to or higher than the
value listed in brackets, the Controlling Player must resolve these
wounds at AP 3 instead of the weapon’s normal AP value.
For example, a model with the Rupture (5+) Special Rule that rolls To
Wound and rolls a result of ‘5’ or higher, the Wound inflicted gains an
AP of ‘3’ regardless of the AP value listed on the weapon’s profile. Note
that a weapon that has both the Rupture (X) and the Gets Hot Special
Rules always uses the base AP of the weapon when rolls of ‘1’ To Hit
inflict Wounds on the attacking model.
Legiones Astartes Command Tank
Some among the Legiones Astartes displayed proficiency in a cupola
that none inside or out of the legions could ever hope to approach.
A model with this Special Rule is selected as a separate unit, but
during the deployment or the game they may join a unit composed
entirely of models with the Vehicle Unit Type as though they had
the Character Sub-type and Independent Character Special Rule,
although they do not gain any additional benefits from these
Special Rules or Sub-types.
A model with this Special Rule may not join a unit containing any
model with a Hull Points Characteristic of 6 or higher.
Immobile
Fixed in place, or otherwise unable to move in any fashion, these units
had to stand their ground or perish.
A model with this Special Rule may not move for any reason,
including making Run moves, declaring or otherwise making
Charge moves, falling back, or make Reactions which would allow
it to move. If it would be forced to do so, the model is immediately
destroyed.
129
Tank Desant (X)
When troops embarked upon this vehicle, they did so across its
armoured hull, and so formed an additional layer of protection for
their carrier - as they could defend it from harm directly.
Any unit embarked upon a Transport with this Special Rule may
fire up to (X) ranged weapons (where X is the number in brackets
next to the Special Rule), measuring from the Transport’s model. If
the unit chooses to fire in this way, they are counted as having
moved - note that this may prevent them from shooting certain
weapon types. Units with any Special Rule that allows them to
count as stationary for the purposes of Shooting attacks (such as
Relentless, Legiones Astartes (Death Guard), etc) may not benefit
from them whilst embarked on a Transport with this Special Rule.
Warp Resplendent
Some denizens of the immaterium reached a truly immense size, and so
the powers they wielded made others pale in comparison.
A model with this Special Rule treats any weapons it is equipped
with with a range of “Template” as having a range of “Hellstorm”
instead, and any weapons with the “Blast (3”)” Special Rule as
having the “Large Blast (5”)” Special Rule instead.
In addition, any weapons a model with this Special Rule is
equipped with which do not meet either of these conditions
instead count their range characteristic as being twice that
specified in the weapon’s profile.
The Black Shield
After escaping the betrayal at Istvaan III, Crysos Morturg continued to
harass his Traitor brethren as Captain of the 108th Independent
Company.
You can include Crysos Morturg model in a Blackshields
Detachment. When you do so, replace this model’s Legiones
Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes
(Blackshields) Special Rule.
In addition, if Crysos Morturg is selected as the army’s Warlord in
a Blackshields Detachment he gains the Master of the Legion
Special Rule.
If Crysos Morturg is selected as the army’s Warlord in a
Blackshields Detachment, you can include Death Guard Mortus
Poisoner Squads as part of that Detachment. If you do so, replace
their Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule with the
Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule.
Soul-Death
Whilst this weapon burnt and tore at all living things, it inflicted the
most terrible harm upon those with an innate connection to the
immaterium.
When attacking a model with the Daemon, Psyker, or Corrupted
Unit Type or Sub-types, a weapon with this Special Rule gains the
Fleshbane, Instant Death, and Breaching (3+) Special Rules.
Skilled Rider
A lifetime in the saddle allowed the most skilled to fire their arsenal at
full effectiveness - even on the move.
A model with this Special Rule may opt to run in the Movement
Phase and still fire a single ranged weapon in the Shooting Phase.
These shots are made at BS2. The To-Hit rolls for these shots
cannot be improved by any source.
Note that if a unit makes use of this Special Rule, they may not
claim the benefits of the Firing Protocols (X) Special Rule in the
same Game Turn.
Shattered Legionary
Whether by betrayal or attrition, many Astartes were separated from
their wider Legions during the chaos of the Horus Heresy and forced to
band together with warriors outside their own ranks.
You can include this model in a Shattered Legion Detachment that
includes models representing the same Legion as this model's
corresponding variant of Legiones Astartes (X). When you do so,
replace this model's Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule with the
Legiones Astartes (Shattered Legions) Special Rule. This is an
exception to the normal rules for Legiones Astartes (Shattered
Legions). When included in a Shattered Legions Detachment, this
model must represent the same Legion as the variant of Legiones
Astartes (X) that is being replaced.
ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Panoptica Weapon Profiles
132
PANOPTICAWEAPON PROFILES
The FAQ, Errata, and Balance Changes made in this document modify a number of weapons’ profiles in various ways - these can be found below.
These replace the profiles found in the existing official Games Workshop publications, and operate under the broader Rules and Conventions laid
out in the Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook. If a profile named below exists in multiple publications, the version of it found
here should be used wherever that weapon is found. If a weapon has multiple profiles, and some of those available to a weapon are not shown below,
then profiles not shown should be treated as unmodified and thus still valid in their original state. All of the weapons found here can only be
obtained via their normal routes for purchasing or upgrading units.
RANGED WEAPONS
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Avenger Gatling Cannon 36“ 6 4 Heavy 12, Rending (5+)
Baneblade Cannon 72“ 9 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7“), Pinning, Rending (6+)
Battle Cannon 48“ 8 4 Heavy 1, Large Blast (5“), Rupture (4+), Breaching (6+), Pinning
Exterminator Autocannon 48“ 7 4 Heavy 6, Rending (5+), Twin-Linked
Fellblade Accelerator Cannon
- AE Shell 100“ 10 2 Ordnance 2, Armourbane (Ranged), Exoshock (4+), Blast (3“), Brutal (3)
- HE Shell 100“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7“), Pinning, Rending (6+)
Hellhammer Cannon 36“ 12 3 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Sunder, Rending (4+), Brutal (3),
Wrecker
Macharius Battle Cannon 48“ 8 4 Heavy 2, Large Blast (5“), Rupture (4+), Breaching (6+), Pinning,
Shell Shock (1)
Macharius Vanquisher Cannon 72“ 9 2 Heavy 2, Sunder, Brutal (2), Twin-Linked, Exoshock (4+)
Rapid-Fire Battle Cannon 48“ 8 3 Ordnance 2, Large Blast (5“), Breaching (6+), Pinning
Stormhammer Cannon 72“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Shred, Rending (6+)
Tremor Cannon 48“ 8 4 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Pinning, Shell Shock (2)
Kratos Battlecannon
- HE Shells 48“ 8 4 Heavy 1, Large Blast (5“), Rupture (4+), Breaching (6+), Pinning
- AP Shells 60“ 8 2 Heavy 2, Sunder, Brutal (2)
- Flashburn Shells 24“ 10 1 Heavy 1, Armourbane (Ranged), Wrecker, Gets Hot
Phaeton Autocannon
- AP Rounds 64“ 7 3 Heavy 3, Sunder, Rending (6+)
- Ignis Rounds 64“ 7 3 Heavy 3, Ignores Cover, Rending (6+)
Auto Weapons
Whether they fire great armour-piercing rounds, huge explosive shells, or a hail of simple bullets, auto weapons are generally grouped by their
use of chemical explosives to gain their initial propulsion.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Auto’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Adrathic Destructor 12“ 5 3 Assault 1, Instant Death, Armourbane (Ranged), Breaching (4+),
Gets Hot, Ejector Blowout
Adrathic Devastor 18“ 6 3 Heavy 2, Instant Death, Armourbane (Ranged), Breaching (4+),
Gets Hot, Ejector Blowout
Adrasite Spear
- Shooting 12“ 5 3 Assault 1, Instant Death, Armourbane (Ranged), Breaching (4+),
Gets Hot, Ejector Blowout
Adrathic Weapons
Based on a similar principle to Disintegration weapons, the classification of weapons commonly known as ‘Adrathics’ were an ancient and
terrifying innovation from Old Night, which when fired caused their target’s atoms to spontaneously and immediately seperate.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Adrathic’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
133
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Demolisher Cannon 24“ 12 3 Ordnance 1, Blast (3"), Sunder, Rending (5+), Brutal (3), Wrecker
Despoiler Cannon 24“ 10 3 Ordnance 1, Blast (3"), Sunder, Rending (5+), Brutal (3), Wrecker
Dreadhammer Siege Cannon 24“ 12 3 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5"), Sunder, Rending (4+), Brutal (4),
Wrecker
Earthshaker Battery 12” - 240” 9 4 Ordnance 2, Barrage, Large Blast (5“), Shred, Pinning, Breaching (5+)
Earthshaker Cannon 12” - 240” 9 4 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5“), Shred, Pinning, Breaching (5+)
Mars-Colossus Bombard 12” - 72” 7 3 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Pinning, Shell Shock (1),
Ignores Cover, Wrecker
Medusa Mortar 36” 9 4 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Pinning, Rending (5+),
Brutal (2)
Morbus Bombard 36” 10 4 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Pinning, Rending (5+)
Mori Quake Cannon 24” - 360” 10/8/6 3 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Mega-Blast, Barrage, Breaching (4+),
Seismic Shock, Concussive (1)
Nemesis Quake Cannon 24” - 480” 10/8/6 3 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Mega-Blast, Barrage, Breaching (4+),
Seismic Shock, Concussive (1)
Praetor Launcher
- Firestorm Munitions 72” 7 4 Ordnance 2, Barrage, Massive Blast (7”), Pinning, Shell Shock (2),
Rending (5+), Ignores Cover
- Foehammer Munitions 12” - 72” 8 3 Heavy 12, Guided Fire, Breaching (5+), Ignores Cover
Thunderblast Cannon 72” 7 4 Heavy 1, Blast (3”), Barrage, Pinning, Rupture (5+)
Artillery Weapons
Firing enormous, unguided shells, these weapons have been largely the same since the inception of mechanised warfare - although the size of
their munitions has grown ever more…
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Adrastus Bolt Caliver
- Bolt Volley 36“ 5 4 Assault 4, Shred, Pinning
Macharius Rotary Bolt Cannon 36” 6 3 Heavy 15, Pinning, Shell Shock (1), Twin-Linked
Mortifier Bolter 18“ 4 5 Assault 2, Harrower, Breaching (6+)
Vulcan Mega Bolter 60” 6 3 Heavy 15, Pinning, Shell Shock (1), Reactor Overload
Bolt Weapons
Bolt weapons rely on two stages - their first, a conventional explosive to propel the bolt from the weapon itself, before the second stage’s
rocket motor ignites, driving the bolt deep into a target before it detonates.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Bolt’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Grenade Launcher (Secondary)
- Krak 24” 6 4 Assault 1, Rupture (6+)
Combi Weapons
Combi-Weapons are an ancient innovation, pairing a reliable bolt weapon with a secondary armament that is useful for a variety of tasks.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Conversion Destructor
0“- 18“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Blind
18“- 42“ 10 2 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Blind, Sunder
42“- 80“ 12 1 Ordnance 1, Large Blast (5”), Blind, Sunder
Conversion Beam Weapons
Conversion Beamers launch a stream of exotic particles and waves of energy at a target, the beam growing in potency until it strikes a target
and unleashes its gathered power.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Conversion Beam’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons. An attack made with a Conversion Beam
Weapon has a number of different profiles, the use of which depends upon how far the chosen target is from the attacking model up to the weapon’s
maximum range. When attacking with one of these weapons measure the distance to the target, place the weapon’s Blast template and scatter as
normal for a blast weapon. Once the final location of the template has been determined, measure to the centre of the Blast marker and consult the
weapon’s chart to determine the effect.
134
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Arachnus Storm Cannon 24“ 8 1 Heavy 3, Lance, Exoshock (6+)
Belicosa Volcano Cannon 120“ 14 1 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Blast (10“), Ignores Cover
Gravis Heavy Lascannon 48“ 10 2 Heavy 2, Sunder
Laser Blaster 96“ 12 2 Destroyer 2, Large Blast (5”), Twin-Linked, Ignores Cover
Nemesis Volcano Cannon 36“ - 180“ 14 1 Destroyer 1, Apocalyptic Blast (10“), Ignores Cover
Proteus Laser Destroyer 36“ 9 1 Ordnance 2, Twin-Linked, Exoshock (5+), Sunder, Gets Hot
Las Weapons
Utilising the raw, searing power of light itself, las weapons blind and burn their targets.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Las’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Magna-Melta Array 18“ 8 1 Heavy 6, Armourbane (Melta), Twin-Linked
Pyrithite Spear
- Shooting 12“ 8 1 Assault 1, Armourbane (Melta)
Melta Weapons
The white-hot roars of melta weaponry are feared across the galaxy by man and xenos alike - for none can hope to resist the boiling fury
emitted by one of their kind for long.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Melta’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Grav-Flux Bombard 18“ † 4 Heavy 1, Large Blast (5”), †Graviton Collapse, Torsion Crusher,
Ignores Cover, Concussive (1), Haywire
Graviton Weapons
Graviton weapons are both feared and respected among all who walk the battlefields of the 31st millenium - for they harness the strength of
arms and armour their victim bears against them.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Graviton’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Infernus Firepike Template 6 4 Heavy 1, Torrent (9”)
Flame Weapons
Propelling great gouts of chemical flame, Flame weapons were often of primitive design - though nevertheless they still struck fear into the
hearts of those who witnessed the horror of their effects on flesh.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Flame’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Vratine Grenade Launcher
- Krak 24” 6 4 Assault 1, Rupture (6+)
Grenade Launcher
- Krak 24” 6 4 Assault 1, Rupture (6+)
Hermes Grenade Launcher
- Krak 18” 6 4 Assault 2, Rupture (6+)
Grenade Weapons
Grenade launchers are simple, singular weapons, but the fact their design has remained unchanged in thousands of years is testament to their
effectiveness.
135
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Hellfire Plasma Missiles 36“ 7 4 Heavy 2, Breaching (4+)
Plasma Blastgun 72” 9 3 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Rending (4+), Reactor Overload,
Plasma Burn
Plasma Weapons
The super-heated plasma ejected by various weapons burns hotter than a star for a fraction of a second - but that is often enough…
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Plasma’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Volkite Carronade 45“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Heavy Beam, Deflagrate, Rending (5+), Pinning,
Wrecker
Volkite Chieorovile
- Heat-Blast 45“ 7 3 Heavy 10, Deflagrate, Breaching (5+), Pinning
- Concentrated Beam 30“ 8 3 Ordnance 1, Heavy Beam, Deflagrate, Breaching (5+), Pinning,
Wrecker
Volkite Macro-Saker 45“ 6 5 Heavy 8, Deflagrate, Pinning
Volkite Veuglaire 30“ 6 4 Heavy 8, Deflagrate
Volkite Weapons
Those struck by volkite beams are bathed in pulsing red light - and, mere seconds later, raging flames that consume them from the inside out.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Volkite’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Aethon Missile Battery 30“ 4 5 Assault 1, Large Blast (5"), Barrage, Twin-Linked, Pinning
Aiolos Missile Launcher 60“ 6 3 Heavy 3, Pinning, Guided Fire, Auto-Servo Tracking
Spicula Rocket System 72” 7 4 Ordnance 1, Massive Blast (7”), Rending (5+), Limited Ammunition,
Pinning, Shell Shock (1)
Terrebrax Rocket Battery 48“ 7 5 Heavy 12, Guided Fire
Whirlwind Missile Launcher
- Talonis HE Missile 48” 6 6 Ordnance 1, Barrage, Large Blast (5”), Ignores Cover, Pinning,
Shell Shock (1)
Missile Weapons
Whether guided by laser, satellite, or targeting computer, missiles are a reliable - if antiquated - weapon of war.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Missile’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Animus Blast Template 4 4 Assault 1, Rending (6+), Psy-Shock, Soul-Death
Exitus Rifle 100” 7 2 Heavy 1, Murderous Strike (5+), Rending (6+), Sniper, Brutal (2)
Lidless Stare (Psychic Weapon) Template 2 - Assault 1, Pinning, Force, Instant Death
Exotic and Miscellaneous Weapons
The weapons of the Horus Heresy are widely varied and strange beyond measure in aspect.
136
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Heavy Chainsword - +2 - Melee, Shred, Two-Handed, Rupture (6+)
Reaper Chainblade - 9 2 Melee, Shred, Sunder, Brutal (2)
Reaper Chainfist - 12 1 Melee, Shred, Armourbane (Melee), Brutal (3), Exoshock (3+)
Reaper Chainsword - 10 2 Melee, Shred, Sunder, Brutal (3)
Chain Weapons
The toothy grin of chain weapons and the bloody butchery they inflicted were well known and recognised across the galaxy.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Chain’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Arlatax Power Claw - +2 2 Melee, Shred
Albian Power Gladius - +1 3 Melee, Master-Crafted, Breaching (5+), Murderous Strike (5+)
Darkstar Falling - +2 2 Melee, Two-Handed, Master-Crafted
Gravis Power Fist - 9 2 Melee, Brutal (2)
Power Blade Array* - User 3 Melee, Breaching (5+)
Scyllax Combat Array
- Dismember - +3 2 Melee, Makeshift Weapon, Murderous Strike (4+)
Shock Charger - User 3 Melee, Brutal (2)
Shock Lance (Melee) - 12 2 Melee, Reach (1), Sunder, Shock Pulse, Concussive (2), Brutal (3),
Exoshock (2+)
Thunderstrike Gauntlet - 12 1 Melee, Brutal (4)
Power Weapons
Employing power fields atop lethally sharp cutting edges, Power weapons are a firm favourite in the hands of many in the Legiones Astartes
and beyond.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Power’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
A model armed with two of the same weapons marked with a * gains +2 attacks, instead of the normal +1 for having two combat weapons.
MELEE WEAPONS
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Las-Impulsor (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Armourbane (Melee), Instant Death
Atrapos Phasecutter (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Armourbane (Melee), Instant Death
Cutting Tools of the Mechanicum
Making use of las-beams, or more esoteric means of slicing through a target, the Mechanicum’s tools and weapons are oft indistinguishable…
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Behemoth Blade - User 2 Melee, Brutal (3), Sunder, Immaterial Blades (AP1), Lance,
Exoshock (5+)
Daemonic Weapon
Forged outside of this material realm, some weapons glowed from within with accursed light.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Daemonic’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Graviton Crusher - x2 2 Melee, Unwieldy, Haywire, Two-Handed
Graviton Ram (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Armourbane (Melee), Concussive (2), Brutal (2)
Graviton Weapons
Utilising the same gravity-warping effects as their ranged cousins, melee grav-weapons crush their opponents under impossible forces.
All weapons listed here are counted as ‘Graviton’ weapons for those rules that affect such weapons.
137
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Charonite Claws - +3 3 Melee, Two-Handed, Rending (5+), Murderous Strike (6+)
Dawnbringer - 10 1 Melee, Master-Crafted, Two-Handed, Armourbane (Melee),
Instant Death, Brutal (2)
Excoriator Chainaxe - +2 3 Melee, Two-Handed, Shred, Murderous Strike (5+), Unwieldy,
Breaching (5+)
Falax Blades* - +1 5 Melee, Specialist Weapon, Breaching (5+), Duellist’s Edge (1)
Forgebreaker - 12 1 Melee, Master-Crafted, Exoshock (3+), Brutal (3), Two-Handed
Hookfang - User 3 Melee, Poisoned (3+), The Venem, Breaching (5+)
Hellcrusher Claws - 10 2 Melee, Brutal (3), Sunder
Lascutter (Melee) - 10 1 Melee, Makeshift Weapon
Krak Grenades - 6 3 Melee, Detonation, Unwieldy, Breaching (6+)
Melta Lance - 8 1 Melee, Ungainly, Lance, Sudden Strike (2), Two-Handed, One Use
Ripper Gun - +1 5 Melee, Reaping Blow (1), Two-Handed
Tarsus Buckler - +1 3 Melee
Telemon Cestus - 10 1 Melee, Specialist Weapon, Sunder, Brutal (3)
Exotic and Miscellaneous Weapons
The weapons of the Horus Heresy are widely varied and strange beyond measure in aspect.
*A model that upgrades a Chainsword to a Falax Blade replaces the Chainsword with two Falax Blades.
ARMOURY OF THE AGE OF DARKNESS:
Extrinsica Weapons
140
The weapons below are designed to represent the varied and deadly weapons that could be found in the armouries of the Legiones Astartes,
Mechanicum, Imperial Commanders, and beyond across the battlefields of the Great Crusade and Horus Heresy. Unspeakably rare, even when
compared to Paragon Blades, these armaments were seen only in the direst of circumstances. Known collectively as “Extrinsica” (Those from
Without), these dread weapons claimed countless lives for many masters on both sides of the Heresy.
All of the following weapons count as ‘Power’ weapons, and operate under the broader Rules and Conventions laid out for melee weapons in the
Horus Heresy: Age of Darkness Core Rulebook. They may only be purchased at the cost shown for a model in your army which has the
choice to purchase a Paragon Blade, replacing a Power Weapon, Chainsword, Close Combat Weapon, Execution Blade, or Guardian Spear. You may
never have more than a single Extrinsica Melee Weapon across your entire army. If a model is armed with one of these weapons, it may not also be
armed with a Paragon Blade.
For the purposes of any rules which check for how a weapon is modelled, all Extrinsica Melee Weapons are counted as being swords.
EXTRINSICA MELEE WEAPONS
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Arcanite Shock Maul - +2 3 Melee, Two-Handed, Concussive (2), Haywire, Specialist Weapon
Biocore Shatterblade - User 2 Melee, Brittle, Reach (1), Specialist Weapon
Paired Mirrorblades - +1 3 Melee, Riposte (1), Paired Weapons, Two-Handed, Breaching (5+)
Incipere-Class Weapons
Suspected to have been mostly pioneered by the Mechanicum in the early days of the Dark Age of Technology, these weapons were likely
designed in answer to xenos technology that presented similar threats.
All weapons listed here may be purchased by an eligible model for +20 points.
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Accelerator Hammer - 7 2 Melee, Two-Handed, Reach (1), Sunder
Hydragyric Executioner - +2 2 Melee, Two-Handed, Gyrocoil Charge, Brutal (2)
Nanofractal Falchion - User 2 Melee, Murderous Strike (5+), Two-Handed
Weapon Range Str AP Type
Aetheric Whisper-Blade - User 2 Melee, Dimensional Edge (5+), Specialist Weapon
Gyrocyclic Reaper Blade - User 2 Melee, Reaping Blow (1), Felling Blow, Specialist Weapon
Calcare-Class Weapons
The fruits of tampering by the blighted tribes of pre-unification Terra, these weapons are rumoured to bear curses from such fraught and
terrible times - and may allege in quiet voices that the rumours may well be right…
All weapons listed here may be purchased by an eligible model for +25 points.
Extremis-Class Weapons
The devising of desperate madmen, the weapons classified as ‘Extremis’ were known to be potent beyond expectations; though the complexity
and idiosyncrasy of their construction made them impossible to replicate.
All weapons listed here may be purchased by an eligible model for +30 points.
141
“I remember the Imperium as it was meant to be, as it could have been, and
unlike the Emperor, I have no gilded wonder to keep me, and soon I shall pass.”
We Remember.
