
Afterburner
Colossal secondary combustors attached to the main engines of a flyer
allowed this vehicle a surprising burst of speed.
Once per game at the start of the Movement Phase, a model with
this Special Rule may elect to fire its Afterburner. If it does so, the
model may make an additional move after its normal move, up to
its normal movement Characteristic. Note that for this additional
move, the Movement value cannot be modified in any way.

Caestus Prow
The armoured fore of this craft was a masterwork of layered armour,
shield generators, and reinforced bulkheads.
A model with this Special Rule may declare a Ramming attack in
the same manner as a Tank, regardless of its actual unit type. This
attack must be declared at the start of the Movement Phase, after
you have decided whether or not the will fire its Afterburner (if it
has the Afterburner Special Rule). When conducting a Ramming
attack, the hit is automatically resolved at Strength 10, AP 3, and
adds +1 to any rolls on the Vehicle Damage table it inflicts. If the
model fired its Afterburner this turn, add +2 instead.
In addition, the model has an Invulnerable Save of 5+ against any
attacks against its Front Armour, including any damage it suffers
as a result of it Ramming or being Rammed itself.
A model with this Special Rule is immune to the effects of the
Armourbane (Melta) Special Rule – meaning that no extra D6 for
armour penetration can be rolled against the model as a result of
this Special Rule.

Auto-Servo Tracking
Independent firing control subsystems allowed this weapon to track
and fire without requiring their operator to direct them.
A weapon with this Special Rule can fire at a different target to the
other weapons the model is armed with.

Augmetics (X)
Some warriors in the Age of Darkness had extensive amounts of
augmetics within, enough even to survive the most grievous of wounds.
When a model with this Special Rule suffers an unsaved Wound, it
can make a special Augmetics roll to avoid being wounded (this is
not a Saving Throw and so can be used against attacks that state
that ‘no Saves of any kind are allowed’).
Roll a D6 each time an unsaved Wound is suffered. On a result
that is equal to or greater than the value in brackets, the unsaved
Wound is discounted – treat it as having been Saved. On any other
result, the Wound is taken as normal. For example, a unit with the
Augmetics (6+) Special Rule would need to score a 6 in order to
discount a Wound inflicted upon it.
If on any unit this rule is presented simply as Augmetics, without a
value in brackets, then count it as Augmetics (6+).
This is a Damage Mitigation roll – any model may make only a
single Damage Mitigation roll of any type for any given Wound
(see page 174).

Artillery Spotters
These spotters worked in tandem with their charges, calling targets for
those under their command to assail.
A unit with this Special Rule may grant the benefits of a Cognis
Signum it has purchased to any unit with at least one model
within 6” of a model from this unit, instead of using the benefit
itself - though the unit affected must be from the same Tercio as it
to grant it the benefits of the Cognis Signum in this way.

Brittle
The sharpened edge on this weapon was impressively good at slicing
through almost any substance - unless the blade bit at a bad angle.
If a model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule hits with all
attacks made with this weapon in a single phase, the blade’s edge is
blunted – at the end of the phase, the weapon’s AP value drops to
AP 4 and it loses any variant of the Rending (X) Special Rule it
possesses for the rest of the battle.

Broken Soul
For those who had already given themselves to the darkness, it was only
a small step to invite the evil within themselves…
A model with this Special Rule may be given the Corrupted
Sub-type at no additional cost in points - this must be decided at
the start of the battle before any models are deployed and may not
be changed during the battle.

Born of Steel
This combatant had become more metal than flesh, and could walk
among automata as one of their own.
A model with this Special Rule may be given the Patris Cybernetica
Special Rule at no additional cost in points - this must be decided
at the start of the battle before any models are deployed and may
not be changed during the battle.

Armoured Superstructure
Approaching in bulk that of a Super-Heavy vehicle, some armoured
behemoths could withstand blows that would utterly destroy a lesser
target.
Whenever a roll is made on the Vehicle Damage Table against a
model with this Special Rule, subtract -1 from the result rolled.

Consul (X)
Despite their lofty station that had otherwise outstripped the rank of
Consul, Astartes Centurions would often retain all the privileges of
their former rank.
A model with this Special Rule is counted as having the named
Legiones Consularis Upgrade as indicated in brackets in the
Special Rule for all intents and purposes, including Rites of War,
Special Rules, and wargear limitations which either require there
to be one to be present in a detachment, or prevent it. Note that
this does not confer any of the benefits normally gained from that
upgrade to the model themselves from any such sources.

Countermeasures
Whether achieved via immense speed, thermic flares, or other more
esoteric means, this craft could confound incoming fire.
A model with this Special Rule has a 5+ Invulnerable Save against
any Shooting Attacks which have the Skyfire Special Rule made
against it. A model with this Special Rule which does not make a
Zoom move in the Controlling Player’s Movement Phase cannot
claim the benefit of this Special Rule during the rest of the
Controlling Player’s turn, as well as the Opposing Player’s turn.

Close-Quarters Boarding Protocol
The mortal factions of the Imperialis Militia were often found fighting
in the claustrophobic confines of a Zone Mortalis.
A unit with this Special Rule may be chosen as part of a
detachment using the Zone Mortalis Engagement Force
Organisation Chart despite having more than 15 models. However,
this unit cannot be expanded above its starting size.

Felling Blow
Trading raw speed for killing power, this weapon struck with a fury
unmatched by lesser weapons.
When a model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule
makes a Melee attack, it may choose to halve the number of
attacks it makes. If it does so, those attacks gain the Murderous
Strike (5+) Special Rule.

Feeding Frenzy
Flailing tendrils snatched up the dead and dying to be devoured by one
of the creature’s many fanged maws. The feast of flesh was added to its
mass – regenerating damage inflicted upon it.
At the end of an Initiative Step in which an enemy model is slain in
close combat as a result of attacks made by a model with this
Special Rule, the Controlling Player may roll a D6 for each model
slain. On a result of a 6 a model with this Special Rule in the
attacking unit immediately regains 1 Wound, up to its starting
Wounds Characteristic.

Emperor’s Chosen
A long and storied path awaited one marked by the Emperor himself -
and this Champion had a fate not yet met...
A model with this Special Rule that suffers an unsaved wound with
the Instant Death Special Rule is not immediately removed as a
casualty, but instead loses D3 wounds instead of one for each
unsaved wound with the Instant Death Special Rule inflicted on it.

Dimensional Edge (X)
The blade of this weapon was not truly at home in our reality - and the
exotic matter that constitutes its form would, when caught in the right
phase, pass straight through any matter it touched.
Weapons with this Special Rule can only ever cause a Wound on
the number indicated in brackets.
No Saves or Damage Mitigation rolls of any kind may be taken
against Wounds caused by this weapon.

Daemonic Hordes
The unending multitudes of these biting, gnawing, scratching creatures
were often underestimated; often only until they kept coming despite
losing untold dozens of their numbers.
If a model with the Daemonic Hordes Special Rule suffers an
unsaved Wound from a Blast (any size) or Template weapon, each
unsaved Wound is multiplied to two unsaved Wounds.
In addition, a model with this Special Rule cannot suffer Instant
Death as a result of any Attack which has a Strength value of
double its Toughness Characteristic - Though attacks which would
otherwise inflict Instant Death in this way may not benefit from
the Feel No Pain (X) or Corrupted Resilience Special Rule. Attacks
which have the Instant Death Special Rule in their profile are
unaffected by this Special Rule and function normally.

Gyrocoil Charge
Internal moving weights inside this weapon allowed it to make
incredibly heavy blows - at the cost of speed.
Attacks made with a weapon with this Special Rule incur a -2
Initiative Penalty.

Exposed Compartment
Whilst the open crew bays of some vehicles made them easier to
operate for many tasks, they also made easy prey for weapons designed
to take advantage of such weaknesses.
Any rolls on the Vehicle Damage Table that target a model with
this Special Rule add +1 to the result.

Hardwired Defences
These automated weapons would follow their directives to protect their
position until they were destroyed.
A Fortification with this Special Rule may not be claimed by a
player which did not originally select them as part of their army.

Crew-Served Weapon
The weight and bulk of some heavy weapons required multiple troops
to partially deconstruct and carry them when repositioning or
boarding most transports.
A model with this Special Rule may Embark on models with the
Transport Unit Sub-Type and Infantry Transport Special Rule,
contrary to the restriction on models with the Bulky (X) Special
Rule rule, but still must take into account their size due to the
Bulky (X) Special Rule.

Ejector Blowout
The unstable nature of some weapons means runaway reactions and
failures in safety mechanisms can be explosively fatal.
A weapon with this Special Rule counts all Gets Hot results as AP2

Field Officer
The officers of the Solar Auxilia were never far from the frontlines, ready
and able to lead their troops into battle directly if necessary.
When this model with this Special Rule joins a unit with the CloseOrder Unit Sub-Type, it automatically gains the Close-Order Unit
Sub-Type for as long as it remains part of that unit.

Sensor Flare
Against some targets, the harsh coruscating light given off rendered
even the most advanced sensors utterly useless.
If a model is Hit by a weapon with this Special Rule, it must take
an immediate Blind Test.

Riposte (X)
Fluid in the air in a way the eye struggles to track, this weapon seems
to be in many places at once - and always right where it is needed to
block a blade...
Models making an attack against a model wielding a weapon with
this Special Rule must subtract X from their Weapon Skill.

Psychic Mastery (X)
A raw bulwark of ethereal power, this psyker pushed past the limits
that would spell doom for others - despite the great risks...
A model with this Special Rule may cast an amount of Psychic
Powers per phase, up to the number indicated in brackets, in spite
of the normal limitations on doing so. Note that a Psychic Power
counted as a Shooting Attack counts as a single power for the
purposes of this Special Rule, and that this Special Rule does not
allow a model to cast the same power multiple times per phase.

Predator’s Gaze
Those rare few who have survived being hunted by an assassin clade
operative long enough to speak of it reported something truly
unnatural and unsettling in the gaze of those singular killers.
When issuing a challenge, a model with this Special Rule selects
the enemy character that accepts the challenge from any models
which are eligible to respond.

Reinforced Shell
Built to survive even the most horrendous damage, this vehicle endured
where lesser chassis did not.
When a model with this Special Rule loses its last Hull Point, but
before resolving the Super-Heavy Explosion, roll a D6. On a Result
of a 4+, the model does not explode as normal, but instead its shell
is treated from this point onward as a ruined building rather than
a vehicle wreck, with its two doorways counted as being open
access points to the interior.

Paired Weapons
Some weapons required they were used together to achieve full
effectiveness.
A model armed with a weapon with this Special Rule gains an extra
Attack.

Inertia Suppression Clamps
Inertial suppression clamps locked transported troops into place,
protecting them from impact.
A model with this Special Rule can carry units composed entirely
of models with the Infantry Unit Type as though any instance of
the Bulky (X) Special Rule they possess had a value of 2 lower than
it actually is, to a minimum of 1, for the purposes of Transport
Capacity of this model only.

Makeshift Weapon
Whilst not all tools of the 31st millennium were intended to see combat,
in a pinch they too could serve as deadly weapons of war.
A model equipped with a weapon with this Special Rule may only
make a single attack at Initiative Step 1 with it, and may not gain a
bonus attack for Charging or from any Special Rules that would
normally grant additional Attacks.

No Witnesses
As an ancient Terran adage went, ‘there can be no witnesses if there are
no survivors’…
A model with this Special Rule may never issue or accept
Challenges, and ignores any effects or Special Rules that would
force it to do so. If the Opposing Player issues a Challenge, a model
with this Special Rule may never be chosen as the model who
declined it.

Lords of the Ruinstorm
Among the thronging masses of the warp, the greatest amongst them
were rare indeed - and jealous in their command.
Only one model with this Special Rule may be included per 1,500
points in your army.

Rupture (X)
Some weapons lacked the raw power to penetrate the thickest armour,
but lighter targets would still find themselves torn apart under such
blows regardless.
When rolling To Wound for a model that has the Rupture (X)
Special Rule, or is attacking with a weapon that has the Rupture (X)
Special Rule, for each To Wound roll equal to or higher than the
value listed in brackets, the Controlling Player must resolve these
wounds at AP 3 instead of the weapon’s normal AP value.
For example, a model with the Rupture (5+) Special Rule that rolls To
Wound and rolls a result of ‘5’ or higher, the Wound inflicted gains an
AP of ‘3’ regardless of the AP value listed on the weapon’s profile. Note
that a weapon that has both the Rupture (X) and the Gets Hot Special
Rules always uses the base AP of the weapon when rolls of ‘1’ To Hit
inflict Wounds on the attacking model.

Legiones Astartes Command Tank
Some among the Legiones Astartes displayed proficiency in a cupola
that none inside or out of the legions could ever hope to approach.
A model with this Special Rule is selected as a separate unit, but
during the deployment or the game they may join a unit composed
entirely of models with the Vehicle Unit Type as though they had
the Character Sub-type and Independent Character Special Rule,
although they do not gain any additional benefits from these
Special Rules or Sub-types.
A model with this Special Rule may not join a unit containing any
model with a Hull Points Characteristic of 6 or higher.

Immobile
Fixed in place, or otherwise unable to move in any fashion, these units
had to stand their ground or perish.
A model with this Special Rule may not move for any reason,
including making Run moves, declaring or otherwise making
Charge moves, falling back, or make Reactions which would allow
it to move. If it would be forced to do so, the model is immediately
destroyed.

The Black Shield
After escaping the betrayal at Istvaan III, Crysos Morturg continued to
harass his Traitor brethren as Captain of the 108th Independent
Company.
You can include Crysos Morturg model in a Blackshields
Detachment. When you do so, replace this model’s Legiones
Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule with the Legiones Astartes
(Blackshields) Special Rule.
In addition, if Crysos Morturg is selected as the army’s Warlord in
a Blackshields Detachment he gains the Master of the Legion
Special Rule.
If Crysos Morturg is selected as the army’s Warlord in a
Blackshields Detachment, you can include Death Guard Mortus
Poisoner Squads as part of that Detachment. If you do so, replace
their Legiones Astartes (Death Guard) Special Rule with the
Legiones Astartes (Blackshields) Special Rule.

Warp Resplendent
Some denizens of the immaterium reached a truly immense size, and so
the powers they wielded made others pale in comparison.
A model with this Special Rule treats any weapons it is equipped
with with a range of “Template” as having a range of “Hellstorm”
instead, and any weapons with the “Blast (3”)” Special Rule as
having the “Large Blast (5”)” Special Rule instead.
In addition, any weapons a model with this Special Rule is
equipped with which do not meet either of these conditions
instead count their range characteristic as being twice that
specified in the weapon’s profile.

Tank Desant (X)
When troops embarked upon this vehicle, they did so across its
armoured hull, and so formed an additional layer of protection for
their carrier - as they could defend it from harm directly.
Any unit embarked upon a Transport with this Special Rule may
fire up to (X) ranged weapons (where X is the number in brackets
next to the Special Rule), measuring from the Transport’s model. If
the unit chooses to fire in this way, they are counted as having
moved - note that this may prevent them from shooting certain
weapon types. Units with any Special Rule that allows them to
count as stationary for the purposes of Shooting attacks (such as
Relentless, Legiones Astartes (Death Guard), etc) may not benefit
from them whilst embarked on a Transport with this Special Rule.

Soul-Death
Whilst this weapon burnt and tore at all living things, it inflicted the
most terrible harm upon those with an innate connection to the
immaterium.
When attacking a model with the Daemon, Psyker, or Corrupted
Unit Type or Sub-types, a weapon with this Special Rule gains the
Fleshbane, Instant Death, and Breaching (3+) Special Rules.

Skilled Rider
A lifetime in the saddle allowed the most skilled to fire their arsenal at
full effectiveness - even on the move.
A model with this Special Rule may opt to run in the Movement
Phase and still fire a single ranged weapon in the Shooting Phase.
These shots are made at BS2. The To-Hit rolls for these shots
cannot be improved by any source.
Note that if a unit makes use of this Special Rule, they may not
claim the benefits of the Firing Protocols (X) Special Rule in the
same Game Turn.

Shattered Legionary
Whether by betrayal or attrition, many Astartes were separated from
their wider Legions during the chaos of the Horus Heresy and forced to
band together with warriors outside their own ranks.
You can include this model in a Shattered Legion Detachment that
includes models representing the same Legion as this model's
corresponding variant of Legiones Astartes (X). When you do so,
replace this model's Legiones Astartes (X) Special Rule with the
Legiones Astartes (Shattered Legions) Special Rule. This is an
exception to the normal rules for Legiones Astartes (Shattered
Legions). When included in a Shattered Legions Detachment, this
model must represent the same Legion as the variant of Legiones
Astartes (X) that is being replaced.